The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
August the Twenty-Second, Two Thousand and One

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
98
Board of Control
98
Civil Service
101
Board of Zoning Appeals
101
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
102
Public Notices
104
Public Hearings
104
City of Cleveland Bids
104
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
105
Committee Meetings
195
Index
196

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Zachary Reed..........................................3232 East 119th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3004 Vega Avenue
44113
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
44109
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
44144
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
44111
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
44111
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Cornell P. Carter, Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Nicholas P. Jackson, Executive Assistant for Services
Matt Dotson, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Marvin Hayes, Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

DEPT. OF LAW – Pinky Carr, Director, __________, Chief Counsel, Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Kelly Clark, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Darnell Brown, Acting Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Reuben Sheperd, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Randall E. DeVaul, Acting Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Susan E. Axelrod, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Michael Konicek, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán , Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Alfred T. Miller, Jr.,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Mic hael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman ,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVI CE COMMIS SION – Room 1 19, An ne Blo om be rg, Pre si de nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank,
E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Kelly Clark, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Kelly Clark; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush, James Gibans,
Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J.
Melena, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Ann Marie Feighan
12B
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2001

Vol. 88

No. 4576

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2001
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Jones, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee:
Polensek, Chairman; Patmon, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats,
Gordon, Jackson, Melena, Sweeney.

RUBY F. MOSS

1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats, Dolan,
Melena, Polensek, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Reed, White.

Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon,
Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Patmon,
Chairman;
Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Polensek,
Sweeney, White.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Cintron, Chairman; Britt, Jackson,
Jones, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, August 15, 2001.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Michael D. Polensek, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon,
Jackson, Johnson, Lewis, Melena,
O’Malley,
Patmon,
Reed,
Rybka,
Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Willis.
Also
present
were
Directors
Carter, Konicek, Sheperd, Guzman,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander, and McCall, Acting Directors
Brown and Johnson.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Clark, Ricchiuto, Miller, Dove and
Ambroz.
Council President Polensek asked
that all rise for a moment of silent
prayer. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION

TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Melena, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating

On the motion of Council Member
Westbrook, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.
VETO
File No. 922-01-A.

1:00 P.M. — Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Brady,
Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Jackson, Reed, Westbrook, Willis.

BY HAND DELIVERY

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed, Westbrook, White.

The Honorable Michael D. Polensek
President of Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

July 27, 2001

1939

Re: Ordinance No. 922-01
Dear Council President Polensek:
I return to you herewith, disapproved and with my veto noted
thereon, Ordinance No. 922-01.
Ordinance No. 922-01 amends Section 177.10 of the Codified Ordinances to provide that within sixty
days of the closing of bonds and
notes, the Director of Finance must
submit an itemized list of costs to
the President and Clerk of Council;
that the Director of Finance may
procure the printing of various bond
and note documents without competitive bidding; that the Director of
Finance may procure the services of
professional consultants for the sale
of bonds or other obligations only
after
Council
passes
legislation
naming the consultants and their
duties; that the Director of Law may
obtain legal opinions for regarding
the sale of bonds or other obligations only after Council passes legislation naming the attorney or law
firm and their duties; and that the
provisions of C.O. 177.10 apply to all
bonds and notes to be issued for the
purpose of refunding outstanding
indebtedness.
Ordinance No. 922-01 restricts the
authority of the Director of Law in
contravention of Charter Section 83,
which outlines the Director of Law’s
responsibilities. The Director of Law
must have the unfettered ability to
engage lawyers in whom the Director has confidence; otherwise the
Director’s ability to carry out the
mandates
of
the
Charter
are
stymied.
Additionally, Ordinance No. 922-01
will impede the City’s ability to get
the best financial deal for the City
when debt is issued. Limiting the
authority of the director of finance
to select underwriters, financial consultants, and other professional consultants necessary for the sale of
bonds and other obligations will
limit and/or delay the city’s access
to the capital markets. Issuing debt
is a time-consuming and time-sensitive process. Given the fluctuations
in the market, time is valuable and
delays can be costly to the city’s
taxpayers and ratepayers.
Furthermore, this ordinance could
well result in higher costs for bond
issues and the refinancing of bonds.
Historically, underwriters are selected after a competitive proposal
process. If a proposal process is not
used and underwriters are merely
chosen by Council, the Director of
Finance and the citizens of the City
of Cleveland cannot be assured that
the service is received at the best
price and on the best terms for the
City.

The City Record

4
Ordinance 922-01 is not good for
the City of Cleveland, could result
in more expensive debt financing
and, in part, violates the Charter.

For these reasons, I have decided
to veto Ordinance No. 1385-01.
Sincerely,
MICHAEL R. WHITE
Mayor.

For the above reasons, I hereby
veto Ordinance No. 922-01.
Sincerely,
MICHAEL R. WHITE
Mayor.

Received.
MOTION
Motion by Council Member Polensek, seconded by Council Member
Patmon.

Received.
VETO
File No. 1385-01-A.
July 27, 2001
VIA HAND DELIVERY
The Honorable Michael D. Polensek
President of Council
Cleveland City Hall, Room 216
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Re: Ordinance No. 1385-01
Dear Council President Polensek:
I return to you herewith, disapproved and with my veto noted
thereon, Ordinance Number 1385-01.
Ordinance Number 1385-01 directs
the Department of Public Health to
enter into a First Amendment to
Contract No. 50407 with MetroHealth
Medical Center extending the term
to October 31, 2001 with all other
terms and conditions to remain in
effect. Contract No. 50407 expired
over a year ago and, since its expiration, the lease has continued on a
month-to-month basis.
Since before the expiration of Contract No. 50407, the Department of
Public Health has been involved in
negotiating the provisions of a new
Lease by Way of Concession with
MetroHealth Medical Center for the
operation of the outpatient health
centers. For over a year, the City
and MetroHealth could not reach a
final agreement as to the terms of
the new contract necessitating the
City’s
notice
of
termination
of
MetroHealth’s now month-to-month
lease. Since the notice of termination was given, the negotiations
have taken on a new immediacy.
Ordinance Number 1385-01 inserts
itself in the current negotiations,
would interfere with an expeditious
resolution of these negotiations and
could undermine the City’s ability to
conclude this matter in a manner
consistent with the best interests of
the citizens of Cleveland.
An extension of the old contract
on the same terms and conditions
for a non-consecutive term occurring
over a year after expiration of the
old contract is not in the best interests of either Cleveland or MetroHealth. At this time, it is preferable
to both parties that the negotiations
continue.
Ordinance
No.
1385-01
unnecessarily complicates these delicate negotiations.
In conclusion, I wish to inform
you again that the main challenge
holding up resolution is obtaining
from MetroHealth complete legal
assurances within the lease that
they will no longer turn away ill
City residents who come to our
Clinics.

That, in accordance with Section
178.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, the designation of
certain financial institutions as eligible depositories as submitted by
letter to Council President Polensek
dated July 17, 2001 from Finance
Director Kelly Clark is hereby approved,
with
the
exception
of
Firstar Bank which is disapproved
as an eligible depository for the
City of Cleveland.
Those voting yea vote to disapprove Firstar Bank as a city depository.
Those voting nay vote to approve
Firstar Bank as a city depository.
Yeas 16. Nays 0. Firstar Bank is disapproved as an eligible depository
for the City of Cleveland.
Those voting yea were Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Gordon,
Jackson,
Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, White and
Willis.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats, Johnson and Westbrook.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
ACTION ON VETO
The Chair called for a motion to
reconsider Ord. No. 213-01, vetoed by
the Mayor. Council Member Patmon
seconded the motion. The question
was as follows: Shall Ordinance No.
213-01 be passed notwithstanding
the veto of the Mayor?
Those voting yea vote to override
the Mayor’s veto.
Those voting nay vote to sustain
the Mayor’s veto.
Ord. No. 213-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance directing
the
Director
of
Public
Safety,
through the Division of Fire, to
fully staff and operate the fire safety boat.
The veto of the Mayor was overridden. Yeas. 14. Nays 3.
Those voting yea were Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Lewis, O’Malley, Polensek, Reed,
Rybka, Sweeney and White.
Those voting nay were Council
Members Coats, Melena and Willis.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Patmon and Westbrook.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
File No. 1438-01.
From the Department of Public
Safety – Deposit of $63,948.00 into
the Federal Law Enforcement Trust
Fund. Received.
File No. 1439-01.
From the Department of Law –
Contract No. 57499 – Linda J. Gillinov – property appraisal. Received.
File No. 1440-01.
From the Department of Law –
Contract 57398 – R & H Realty Company – property appraisal. Received.
PLAT
File No. 1441-01.
Plat – Catholic Charities Facilities
Corporation – Fatima Family Center. Approved by Committees on
Public Service and City Planning.
Received.
Without objection, plat approved.
Yeas 16. Nays 0.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 1442-01.
James Williams – Board of Building Standards. Received.
File No. 1443-01.
Mark Ruzic – Greater Cleveland
Regional
Transit
Authority.
Received.
File No. 1444-01.
Francisco Molina – Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority.
Received.
STATEMENTS OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1445-01.
From the Department of Public
Health – Wiggins Interiors – interior improvements to various City of
Cleveland Health Centers. Received.
File No. 1446-01.
From the Department of Public
Health – M-A Building & Maintenance Company – masonry restoration – Tremont Health Center. Received.
File No. 1447-01.
From the Director of Public Utilities – Advanced Roofing Systems
Inc. – Division of Water Pollution
Control. Received.
File No. 1448-01.
From the Director of Public Utilities – Utilicon Corporation – sewer
cleaning and lining. Received.
File No. 1449-01.
From the Director of Public Utilities – De-Ko, Inc. – rehabilitation of
chlorine
handling
systems.
Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

COMMUNICATIONS

File No. 1450-01.
Re: New Application – 089835611040
– BP Exploration & Oil, Inc., d.b.a.
Site 1104, 2553 Superior Avenue.
(Ward 13). Received.

File No. 1437-01.
From the Department of Public
Safety – Deposit of $111,656.79 into
the Federal Law Enforcement Trust
Fund. Received.

File No. 1451-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application – 8829226 – Team Bleu, Inc.,
d.b.a. Erie Bleu, 4204 Detroit Avenue. (Ward 14). Received.

1940

August 22, 2001
File No. 1452-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application – 5924195 – Roy E. Middlebrooks, 3695-97 East 131st Street,
first floor and basement. (Ward 2).
Received.
File No. 1453-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application – 0335848 – Albert Avery,
d.b.a.
Ruby’s
Delicatessen,
7038
Wade Park Avenue. (Ward 7). Received.
File No. 1454-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application – 4425551 –
Kabat & Cull, Inc., d.b.a. Peabody’s
Concert Club, 2083 Euclid Avenue
and patio. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1455-01.
Re: Stock Transfer Application –
3290405 – Good Time Tavern, Inc.,
d.b.a. Good Time Tavern, 5509 Fleet
Avenue, first floor and basement.
(Ward 13). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1456-01—Helen Wright
Cansler.
Res.
No.
1457-01—Bessie
Belle
Jones Cannon.
Res. No. 1458-01—Ocie Hunter.
Res.
No.
1459-01—Claudia
Williams.
Res. No. 1460-01—Louise Liley.
Res. No. 1461-01—George L. Monroe.
Res. No. 1462-01—W.C. Coats.
Res. No. 1463-01—Eria Gibbs.
Res. No. 1464-01—Marion Sokolowski.
Res. No. 1465-01—Daniel L. Berry,
Sr.
Res. No. 1466-01—Walter A. Burks.
Res. No. 1467-01—Callie Mae Taylor.
Res. No. 1468-01—Icabod Flewellen.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1469-01—William Harris.
Res. No. 1470-01—Charles Oakley.
Res. No. 1471-01—Bowie & Smith
Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1472-01—Bonnie Jean Terrell.
Res. No. 1473-01—Williams-Morrow
Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1474-01—Pearl Jackson.
Res. No. 1475-01—Towards Employment.
Res. No. 1476-01—St. Augustine
Church.
Res. No. 1477-01—Judge Ronald B.
Adrine.
Res.
No.
1478-01—Catherine
&
Archie Cotton.
Res. No. 1479-01—Sharpe Family
Reunion.
Res. No. 1480-01—Eddie Mae Baker.
Res. No. 1481-01—Vera Hall.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1482-01—Rev. Edward Alexander, Jr. & Mrs. Louise Alexander.

The City Record
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1483-01—Congresswoman
Maxine Waters.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1484-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance to enact
a new section in the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, for the
creation of a Legislative Service
Division for Cleveland City Council,
which will provide legal, technical,
and clerical assistance for all members of Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council is the legislative branch of government that has the power and
authority to inquire into the conduct
of any department office, officer or
employee of the City and to make
investigations as to City affairs; and
Whereas, the City Council conducts municipal research on a variety of City problems and how Cleveland can benefit from the problems
and solutions of other communities;
and
Whereas, City Council provides
municipal and fiscal oversight on
City government in order to make
certain that the City is in good fiscal condition; and
Whereas, City Council provides
legislative oversight through the
Committee process with the assistance of professional and technical
staff; that provides research, drafting legislation and resolutions for
Council; and
Whereas, many local legislative
offices across the country utilizes a
Legislative Service Division, which
assists the legislative branches of
government to examine all governmental issues; and
Whereas, such legislative services
consists of a professional staff of
attorneys, researchers, and clerical
technicians that provide assistance
to members of the legislative office;
and
Whereas,
a
legislative
service
division can enhance the oversight
role of City Council by providing
legal and technical expertise in
local governmental affairs; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Legislative Service Division
There is hereby created, in the
legislative branch of government,
the Legislative Service Division.
The City Council shall appoint and
fix the compensation of a director
and other such technical, professional, legal, and clerical staff and
services to carry out the powers and
duties
of
the
Commission.
All
employees of the Division shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council.
The director shall act as the chief
administrative officer of the Division and shall report directly to City
Council.
Section 2. Duties of the Legislative Service Division

1941

5
The Legislative Service Division
shall:
(A) Conduct research, make investigations, and secure information or
data on any subject and make
reports thereon to the City Council;
(B) Ascertain facts and make
reports concerning the City budget,
the revenues and expenditures of
the state, and of the organization
and functions of the City, it departments and divisions at the request
of City Council.
(C) Make surveys, conduct investigations, and studies, and compile
data, information, and records on
any question which may be referred
to it by either the Council President
or any Councilmatic Committee, or
Councilperson.
(D) Assist and cooperate with any
City
Council
Committee
when
requested to do so.
(E) Prepare and advise in the
preparation of any ordinance or resolution, when requested by any
member of City Council.
(F) Collect, classify, and index
the documents of the City, which
shall include executive and legislative documents and departmental
reports and keep on file all ordinances and resolutions, and other
official documents.
(G) Provide to all members of
City Council with impartial and
accurate information and reports
concerning any legislative issues in
accordance to the rules prescribe by
the Council.
(H) Shall have attorneys experienced in community development
issues and community development
block grant policies and procedures
assist each member of Council on
utilizing funds such as community
development block grant and neighborhood equity funds.
(I) Any other duties as requested.
Section 3. The Legislative Service
Division shall be provided with adequate office in Cleveland City Hall
for its operation.
Section 4. The Legislative Service
Division shall compile and distribute reports regarding the status of
legislation and the effects of the
ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1485-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement
with
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corporation for Safety
Education and Yard Light Program
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

6
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to purchase and install yard lamps for
Ward 6 residents for their premises,
and the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation to serve as an agent for the
City for the installation of security
yard lamps for residents in Ward 6,
through the use of Neighborhood
Equity Funds
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to purchase and install approximately 50
yard lamps over a 12 month period
in Ward 6 in accordance with the
program approved by the Housing
Advisory Board; and further that
the Director of Community Development is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation to
serve as an agent for the City for
the installation of security yard
lamps through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds
in
accordance
with
the
program
approved by the Housing Advisory
Board.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation to provide a public safety program and safety fair
for the public purpose of providing
education on community safety measures.
Section 4. That the cost of said
contracts authorized by Sections 1
and 2 herein shall be in an amount
not to exceed $18,000 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1486-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 161.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 96-87,
passed April 27, 1987, relating to procedures for alterations, demolitions,
removals or constructions of designated landmark properties in the
City.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 161.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 96-87, passed April 27,
1987, is hereby amended to read as
follows:

The City Record
Section 161.05 Regulation of Environmental Changes; Certificate of
Appropriateness
No person owning, renting or occupying property which has been designated a landmark or which is situated in a designated landmark district shall make any environmental
change in such property unless a
certificate of appropriateness has
been previously issued by the Commission with respect to such environmental change. The following
procedures shall apply to all alterations, demolitions, removals or constructions of such property in the
City:
(a) Any application to the Division of Building and Housing for a
building permit for an environmental change shall also be deemed an
application
for
a
certificate
of
appropriateness, and shall be forwarded to the Commission, together
with copies of all detailed plans,
designs, elevations, specifications
and
documents
relating
thereto,
within seven days after receipt
thereof. An application for a certificate of appropriateness may be filed
by the applicant directly with the
Commission at the same time that
an application for a building permit
is filed or in lieu of filing for a
building permit, if no building permit is required for the proposed
environmental change.
(b) If the Commission finds that
the environmental change proposed
by the applicant will not adversely
affect any significant historical or
aesthetic feature of the property and
is appropriate and consistent with
the spirit and purposes of this chapter, or will remedy conditions imminently dangerous to life, health or
property, as determined in writing
by the Division of Building and
Housing or the Division of Fire or
the Department of Public Health,
then the Commission shall issue a
certificate of appropriateness.
(c) If the Commission finds that
the environmental change proposed
by the applicant will adversely
affect any significant historical or
aesthetic feature of the property or
is inappropriate or inconsistent with
the spirit and purposes of this chapter, the Commission may either deny
the application or delay action for a
period of not more than six (6)
months on the application in order
to
conduct
further
investigation
with regard to the proposed environmental change or to conduct
negotiations with the applicant and
any other party in an effort to find
a means of preserving the property
and explore alternatives to the proposed environmental change. The
Commission may also investigate
the feasibility of all available ways
and
means
of
preserving
the
improvement, including without limitation, inducing by contract or
other consideration the creation of
covenants restricting the use of
property, leasing and subleasing the
property for the purposes of preservation and acquiring by eminent
domain or contract or conveyance
all or any part of or interest in the
property.
(d) At the end of an initial six (6)
month period of delay the Commission shall either approve or disapprove the application, or may choose
to delay action for a second and
final period of not more than six (6)
months if the Commission deter-

1942

August 22, 2001
mines that this additional time period may be useful in securing an
alternative to the proposed environmental change.
At the end of the
second and final period, the Commission shall either approve or deny
the application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
(e) Upon the issuance, denial or a
delay in the issuance of a certificate
of appropriateness, the Commission
shall give written notices of the
issuance, denial or delay in the
issuance to the applicant and the
Division of Building and Housing.
The Commission shall provide written notice of the issuance, denial or
delay in the issuance of a certificate
of appropriateness to the applicant
and the Division of Building and
Housing within forty five (45) days
of the receipt by the Commission of
an application from either the applicant or the Division of Building and
Housing.
(f) If no action has been taken by
the Commission on an application
for a certificate of appropriateness
to approve, disapprove or delay
action within forty-five (45) days
after such application has been
received by the Commission, the certificate of appropriateness shall be
deemed issued.
Section 2. That existing Section
161.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 96-87, passed April
27, 1987, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Safety,
Public Health, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Public Safety, Public
Health, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1487-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to F.A.I., Inc. on
behalf of their Lessee, U.S.A. Parking Systems, LLC to encroach into
right-of-way of Broom Court N.W. to
eliminate a nuisance and secure
safe ingress and egress for the
parking lot.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to F.A.I., Inc., on behalf of their
Lessee,
U.S.A.
Parking
Systems,
LLC, Corporate Offices, 2217 East
9th Street, Suite 304, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, to eliminate a nuisance and
secure safe ingress and egress for
the parking lot which will include

August 22, 2001
the construction, use and maintenance of a portion of Broom Court
N.W. which is an area of approximately 130.00 feet in length, and
will encroach into the public rightof-way of Broom Court N.W. at the
location more fully described as follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION/ENCROACHMENT AREA/BROOM COURT N.W.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and described as follows:
Being all that portion of Broom
Court N.W. (16.5 feet wide), extending Westerly from the Southerly
prolongation of the Easterly line of
Sublot Number 3 in the Simon
Perkins Allotment as shown in Book
“F”, Page 265 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records, to its Westerly terminus.
Section 2. That this encroachment
will be placed within the public
right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
1, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including
a Building Permit, shall be obtained
before said encroachment is constructed.
Section 3. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1488-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of rock salt, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of rock
salt in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for

The City Record
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 30130)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1489-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance g i v i n g
consent of the City of Cleveland
for replacing the Schaaf Road
(CR-97) Bridge No. 6:034 over the
CSXT
railroad;
authorizing the
Director of Public Service to enter
into
any
agreements
relative
thereto; and to apply for and
accept an allocation of County
Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is hereby given to the County of Cuyahoga
(the “County”) to construct the following improvement in accordance
with plans, specifications and estimates approved by the County:
replacing the Schaaf Road (CR-97)
Bridge No. 6:034 over the CSXT railroad (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City hereby
proposes to cooperate with the County in the cost of the Improvement
by cooperating to the extent of
funds received by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle $5.00
License Tax Fund; and by applying
to the Board of County Commissioners to use the License Tax Fund
for said Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into such agreements with
the County as are necessary to complete the planning and construction
of the Improvement.
Section 4. That upon completion of
the Improvement, the City thereafter
will:
a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
b) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of

1943

7
the statutes relating thereto and
make ample financial and other provisions for such maintenance;
c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the County, hold
said right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes and permit no
signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the limits of the right-ofway;
d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices in accordance with
the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices pursuant to the provisions of Section 4511.11 and related sections of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
e) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a
part of the Improvement in accordance with Section 4511.66 of the
Ohio Revised Code, unless otherwise
controlled by City ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. a)
That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City which are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available therefor.
b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the Improvement, the County will
arrange for the acquisition thereof.
c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements
of any bridge (defined as a structure with a span of twenty (20) feet
or greater) within the limits of the
Improvement in accordance with
applicable sections of the Ohio
Revised Code.
d) That the street within the limits of the Improvement is hereby
designated a through highway within the meaning of Section 4511.07(F)
of the Ohio Revised Code.
e) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all public utility companies whose lines or structures
will
be
affected
by
the
Improvement, that said companies
have agreed to make any and all
necessary rearrangements in such
manner as to be clear of any construction called for by the plans for
the Improvement and that said companies have agreed to make such
necessary rearrangements immediately after notification by the City
or the County.
f) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances thereto which do
not comply with the provisions of
ODOT Directive No. 28-A, whether
inside or outside the corporate limits of the City, as may be necessary
to conform to the Improvement, and
that said rearrangements shall be
done at such time as requested by
the County.
g) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of
governmentally-owned utility facilities which come within the provisions of ODOT Directive No. 28-A to
the same extent that it participates
in the other costs of the Improvement, provided that such participation will not extend to additions or
betterments of existing facilities.
h) That the construction, reconstruction and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in such a
manner as not to interfere unduly

8
with the operations of the contractor constructing the Improvement,
and all backfilling of trenches made
necessary by such utility rearrangement shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
ODOT Construction and Material
Specifications and shall be subject
to approval by the County.
i) That the City hereby agrees
that the County shall be and hereby is saved harmless from any and
all damages or claims arising from
or growing out of the certification
or obligations made or agreed to in
divisions a), b), e), f) and h), of this
section.
j) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on any street
within the limits of the Improvement shall be removed and no stop
signs will be erected on same except
at
intersections
with
another
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-way Stop” as
provided in the aforesaid Manual
are met.
k) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle or vehicle load permitted by the
Ohio Revised Code to use a public
highway. Any existing rule or regulation so restricting road usage is
hereby rescinded.
Section 6. That the Council of the
City hereby requests the Board to
County Commissioners to proceed
with the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into an agreement with the
Board of Commissioners of the
County concerning the financing of
the Improvement, which agreement
shall
contain
without
limitation
terms substantially similar to the
following:
a) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, under current
County Engineer standards for construction
of
County
roads
and
bridges.
b) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction contract for
the Improvement, and will review
the construction plans for conformance with division a) of this section and make an inspection of the
completed project.
c) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement,
sidewalks,
alternate
bid
items or other items that are in
addition to those now existing in
the plans for the Improvement and
not provided for elsewhere in the
agreement, the Council will do so,
provided that the construction of
such additional items is approved
by the County and the City, and
provided
further
that
the
City
agrees to pay or cause to be paid
the cost of said additional construction and of preliminary and
design engineering therefor, but
the City shall not be responsible for
the cost of supervision of said additional construction.
d) That the City hereby agrees to
participate with the County in the

The City Record
cost of the Improvement by an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle License Tax fund to pay the
County portion of the project.
e) That if the project is financed
as a Federal-aid project, eligible
costs of the Improvement shall be
financed from the aforesaid funds.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to apply to the County for an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle License Tax fund to pay the
County portion of the project, and to
enter into such agreements with the
County as are necessary to finance
the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to apply to the County Board of
Commissioners for approval to use
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
funds to pay for the Improvement,
to accept said funds and to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive said funds; and
that said funds be and are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set
forth above.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and directed to transmit to the County three
(3) certified copies of this ordinance
immediately upon the taking effect
thereof, and it shall become the
basis
for
proceeding
with
the
Improvement.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1490-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources for the 2002 Recycle Ohio!
Program; authorizing said Director
to enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies to implement
the program; and authorizing one or
more contracts for the purchase of
equipment and supplies for the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $200,000
from the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, for the 2002 Recycle Ohio! Program, for the purposes
set forth in the grant application
handbook and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Service
is hereby authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under said grant; and that said
funds be and they hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in
the grant application handbook for
said grant.

1944

August 22, 2001
Section 2. That the grant application handbook for said grant, File
No. 1490-01-A, made a part hereof as
if fully rewritten herein, including
the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide varying levels of
cash match dependent upon the
activities applied for and the Cuyahoga County per capita income
(CPCI) as compared to the median
county per capita income (MCPCI)
of the State of Ohio, payable from
Fund No. 01-400301-639905, is hereby
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into an agreement with the
Department of Natural Resources to
implement said program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies for the implementation and operation of the Program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make one or more written contracts in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of the
grant term for the necessary items
of equipment and supplies necessary
for implementation and operation of
the grant, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than a
year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire grant term.
The cost of said contracts or contracts shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the cost of the
above authorized contracts shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance and the cash match.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1491-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 451.241 relating to prohibiting the parking of vehicles on
vacant lots.

August 22, 2001
Whereas, vacant lots in the City
often are used as unlicensed parking lots without proper surfacing,
drainage, landscaping or routes of
ingress and egress; and
Whereas, vacant lots in the City
often become littered with abandoned, junk, and unsightly vehicles;
and
Whereas, the parking of vehicles
on vacant lots makes it more difficult for owners of such lots and the
City to prevent and abate nuisances
such as high grass, noxious weeds,
refuse, and stagnant surface water,
which often occur on vacant lots, as
required by Chapter 209 of the City’s
Codified Ordinances; and
Whereas, the City has a licensing
program for commercial parking
lots, in Chapter 457 of the City’s
Codified Ordinances, a program to
alleviate on-street parking congestion on residential streets, in Chapter 461 of the City’s Codified Ordinances, and zoning regulations permitting off-street parking on vacant
lots under certain limited circumstances, making it otherwise unnecessary to park or leave vehicles on
vacant lots; and
Whereas, the Zoning Code of the
City permits off-street parking on
vacant lots in Residential Use Districts, only with approval of the
Board of Zoning Appeals and under
certain limited circumstances (Chapters 337 and 339), and the Zoning
Code contains regulations and limits on the establishment of off-street
parking
in
other
Use
Districts
(Chapter 349); and
Whereas,
police
officers
are
authorized to remove and impound
vehicles left standing or parked
unlawfully in the City in Section
405.02 of the Codified Ordinances,
but there is no express prohibition
on parking on vacant lots, and no
express authorization for the City
to act to remove vehicles and cite
owners of property who allow such
parking without proper approval;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 451.241, to read as follows:
Section
451.241
Parking
Motor
Vehicles on Vacant Lots Prohibited
(a) No person who is the owner
of a vacant lot shall allow a motor
vehicle to be parked or left on such
lot, and no person shall park a
motor vehicle on any vacant lot,
unless (i) the lot is a licensed parking lot under Chapter 457 of the
Codified Ordinances, (ii) the owner
of the vacant lot has a permit
issued pursuant to this section, or
(iii) the lot is an approved off-street
parking facility pursuant to the
Zoning Code of the City and the lot
is clearly marked by a sign identifying the owner and the approved
private use.
(b) A vacant lot shall be defined,
for the purposes of this section, as a
parcel that does not contain any permanent lawful occupied structure.
(c) Parking which will not unduly constitute a detriment to the
character of the neighborhood may
be permitted on a vacant lot on a
temporary basis of no more than

The City Record
two (2) days for purposes such as
block parties, festivals, street cleaning, street repaving, or funerals,
upon application by the owner of
the parcel to the Commissioner of
Building and Housing, and on a permanent basis if approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant
to Section 337.14 of the Codified
Ordinances or if the lot meets all of
the requirements of Chapters 337,
339 and 349 of the Zoning Code of
the City.
(d) No permit shall be issued for
a temporary parking use until the
members of Council of the wards
affected have been given written
notice by the Commissioner of Building and Housing of an application
by an owner, and until the expiration of thirty (30) days from the
date of such notice, unless such period of thirty (30) days is expressly
waived by such Council members in
writing.
(e) When so approved, the Director of Community Development shall
issue such permit. Any permit shall
be subject to revocation if such area
is not maintained in a condition satisfactory to the Director or constitutes a nuisance.
(f) Any motor vehicle parked or
left on a vacant lot in violation of
this section for more than seventytwo hours shall be deemed abandoned and shall be subject to be
impounded as provided in Chapter
405.
(g) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for the first offense and
shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree for a second and any subsequent offense and shall be fined not
more than five hundred ($500) dollars or imprisoned not more than
sixty (60) days, or both. In addition
to any other method of enforcement
provided for in this section, any violation of the provisions, of this section that is a minor misdemeanor
may be enforced by the issuance of
a citation in compliance with Rule
4.1 of the Ohio Rules of Criminal
Procedure.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1492-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to develop an information
technology systems project at Cleveland
Hopkins
International
and
Burke Lakefront Airports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1945

9
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland for a period
not to exceed five (5) years in order
to provide professional services necessary to develop an information
technology systems project at Cleveland
Hopkins
International
and
Burke Lakefront Airports, which
purpose includes the effective and
efficient use of automation methods
and technology to support the operations, goals and objections of the
airports.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 30976.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1493-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Fuller Avenue to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No(s). 127-17003 and 127-17-004, as more fully
described in Section 2 below, to

10
Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc.
Section 2. That the real property to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as
follows:
P. P. No. 127-17-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
28 in Abraham Fuller’s Allotment,
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 441, as shown in the recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Fuller Avenue, (formerly
Fuller Street) and extending back
of equal width 133.60 feet, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
P. P. No. 127-17-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
29 in Abraham Fuller’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 441, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Fuller Avenue, and extending back of equal width 133.60 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to the Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law. Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1494-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Kinsman Avenue/East 80th
Street/East 82nd Street Community
Development Plan for the Kinsman
Avenue/East 80th Street/East 82nd
Street and for the Action Area therein; and making certain findings and
determinations in connection therewith.
Whereas, a proposed Community
Development Plan, designated the
Kinsman Avenue/East 80th Street/East
82nd Street Community Development
Plan, dated September, 2001 (the “CD
Plan”), for the plan area designated
and described in said CD Plan (the
“Plan Area”), has been prepared and
submitted to Council and which CD
Plan includes the area described
and
designated
therein
as
the
Action Area (the “Action Area”) and
which Plan contemplates certain
activities and treatment for the
elimination of conditions of blight
and deterioration and for the prevention of recurrence thereof within
the Plan Area; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has found and determined
that the Plan Area is a blighted
and deteriorated area within the
meaning of Section 313.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, such findings of the City
Planning Commission being based
on a document entitled “The Kinsman Avenue/East 80th Street/East
82nd Street Survey Area” (“the Survey”) with respect to the Plan Area;
and the City Planning Commission
further found and determined based
on the Survey that the Action Area
is a blighted and deteriorated area
within
the
meaning
of
Section
313.02 of said Codified Ordinances;
and
Whereas, pursuant to notice duly
given, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on the
Plan,
which
Plan
includes
the
Action Area, and has approved such
CD Plan; and
Whereas, the CD Plan amends and
supercedes any previously adopted
plan with respect to the Plan Area;
and
Whereas, the Survey, the CD Plan
dated September, 2001, and the City
Planning Commission findings and
related materials have been presented to this Council, and are set
forth in File No. 1494-01-A, and oral
reports and testimony thereon have
been presented by City staff, and
Council has been apprised of the
facts, conditions, structural deficiencies, and blighted influences pertaining to the Plan Area and the
Action Area, including the existence
of a majority of structures therein
which are blighted due to one or
more of the following factors: structural
deficiencies,
deterioration,
dilapidation, obsolescence, nonconformities with modern code requirements relating to building or fire
protection, existing conditions therein endangering life and property by
fire or other causes, or other conditions which are detrimental to the
public health, safety, morals and
general welfare; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that it shall be City policy
that specific “Action Areas,” with
defined boundaries, within Community Development plan areas will be
established by the City when the
City has determined that the presence of blight, and the possible

1946

August 22, 2001
recurrence of blight, can be prevented through City or private maintenance, rehabilitation or redevelopment; and
Whereas, the CD Plan contemplates general measures to eliminate
such conditions of blight and deterioration from the Plan Area; and the
Action Area portion of the Plan contemplates specific measures to eliminate such conditions of blight and
deterioration from the Action Area
by providing for the maintenance,
rehabilitation, or clearance and redevelopment of structures on the property comprising the area described
in said Action Area, pursuant to the
CD Plan standards; and
Whereas, for the foregoing reasons,
Council has determined that the Plan
for the Action Area, and the implementation of the measures therein set
forth will be in the best interests of
the citizens of the City and will provide for the general health, safety
and welfare of the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public property, health and
safety in that approval of the CD
Plan for the Action Area is necessary
in order that steps can be immediately undertaken to eliminate conditions of blight and deterioration in
the Plan Area; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That based upon the
facts
and
conditions
concerning
blight and deterioration contained
in said Survey and the findings and
reports hereinabove referenced, it is
hereby found and determined that
the area described as the Community Development Plan Area in the following description is a blighted and
deteriorated area and meets the
requirements of Section 313.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland:
Kinsman - East 80th Street and
East 82nd Street
Plan Area
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Kinsman Road S.E. (width varies) at
its intersection with the centerline of
East 80th Street (60.00 feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said centerline of East 80th Street its intersection with the centerline of Preble
Avenue S.E. (50.00 feet wide);
Thence Easterly and Southeasterly, along said centerline of Preble
Avenue to its intersection with the
centerline of East 82nd Street (50.00
feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said centerline of East 82nd Street to its
intersection with the Southerly line
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Number 431;
Thence
Easterly,
along
said
Southerly line of Original Lot Number 431 to its intersection with the
Westerly line of a parcel of land
(PPN:
127-08-002),
conveyed
to
Kinbess LLC by deed recorded in
AFN 1999 121 50656 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence
Southerly,
along
said
Westerly line to the most Southerly
corner thereof;
Thence in a general Northeasterly
direction, along the Easterly line of
the Kinbess LLC Parcel as aforesaid, to its intersection with the centerline of Kinsman Road S.E. as
aforesaid;

August 22, 2001
Thence Northwesterly, along said
centerline of Kinsman Road to the
place of beginning.
Section 2. That, based upon the
facts
and
conditions
concerning
blight and deterioration contained
in said Survey and the findings and
reports hereinabove referenced, it is
hereby found and determined that
the area described as the Action
Area which is equal to and the same
as the boundary described as the
Plan Area, is a blighted and deteriorated area and meets the requirements of Section 313.02 of the Codified ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, notwithstanding and as an
exception to certain notice requirements of Section 313.02 of said Codified Ordinances.
Section 3. That the aforesaid Survey, findings and reports concerning
the facts and conditions concerning
blight and deterioration in the Plan
Area and Action Area are hereby
accepted, and this Council hereby
finds that the public actions and
policies proposed and contemplated
by the CD Plan are necessary and
appropriate in order to eliminate the
conditions of blight and deterioration, and prevent the recurrence
thereof; and that the CD Plan for
the Plan Area and the Action Area
are hereby approved as a Community Development Plan within the
meaning of, and for the purposes of
the Community Development Code
of the City of Cleveland and the procedures followed for preparation
and approval of such plan and hearing thereof are hereby approved,
and it is hereby found and determined that the CD Plan conforms to
and is in compliance with the
applicable provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland.
Section 4. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Section
371.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it is hereby
found and determined that the CD
Plan will afford maximum opportunity
consistent
with
the
sound
needs of the City as a whole for
redevelopment of the Plan Area and
Action Area; that the Plan gives the
due consideration to the provision
of adequate open space, park and
recreational areas appropriate to
the area and the Plan is in conformity with the general plan of the
City and the workable program for
community improvements of the
City.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1495-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2001-2002 Cleveland Infant Mortality Reduction Initiative Project
and to enter into contract with
Lutheran
Metropolitan
Ministry
Association to implement the program.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $120,000,
and any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from
the
Ohio
Department
of
Health, to conduct the 2001-2002
Cleveland Infant Mortality Reduction Initiative Project, for the purposes set forth in the summary and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and
that said funds be and they hereby
are appropriated for the purposes
set forth in the summary for said
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 1495-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$18,000, from Fund No. 01-500501639905, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with Lutheran
Metropolitan Ministry Association
for the implementation of the program as described in the summary
contained in the file, payable from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
pursuant to this ordinance and the
cash match.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 1496-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of not
to exceed two portable lead detectors, for the Division of Environment, Department of Public Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in
accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all of
the following items: not to exceed
two (2) portable lead detectors, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Environment,
Department
of
Public
Health.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 13 SF 586,
Request No. 40583.

1947

11
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 1497-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to amend Contract Nos.
57916, 57917, 57919, 57899, 57953 and
57954 with various agencies to provide occupant relocations in conjunction with the 2001-2003 LeadBased Paint Hazard Control Program.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 733-2000, passed June 19, 2000,
the
Director
of
Public
Health
entered into Contract Nos. 57916,
57917, 57919, 57899, 57953 and 57954
with various agencies to provide
services in conjunction with the
2001-2003 Lead-Based Paint Hazard
Control Program; and
Whereas, occupant relocation services are now needed under this
Program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
amend the following contracts:
Contract No.

Agency

57916

Fairfax Development

57917

St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development

57919

Glenville Development

57899

Tremont West
Development

57953

Cleveland Housing
Network, Scattered Site

57954

Cleveland Housing
Network, Joint Abatement

to provide for occupant relocation
services in conjunction with the
2001-2003 Lead-Based Paint Hazard
Control Program. The total aggregate amount of the contract amendments authorized herein shall not
exceed
$165,000
and
shall
be
payable from the fund or fund to
which are credited the proceeds of
the grant and cash match authorized and appropriated for this purpose.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.

The City Record

12
Ord. No. 1498-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contracts with various
agencies to provide HIV/AIDS-related services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
to provide HIV-AIDS-related services
with the following agencies, in the
following amounts:
Agency

Amount

AIDS Taskforce of
Greater Cleveland

$46,558.00

BlackOut Limited

$41,140.00

Cleveland State
University

$11,400.00

Ohio AIDS Coalition

$11,190.00

Section 2. That the costs of the
contracts authorized above shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-500501-638000,
Request No. 40582.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 1499-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contracts with the Ohio
Department of Public Health for
performance
of
environmental
assessments of the residences of
Medicaid-eligible children, for the
Division of Environment, Department of Public Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into two contracts with the
State of Ohio, Department of Health,
under which the City will perform
environmental assessments for lead
hazards in residences occupied by
Medicaid-eligible
children
during
the period from July 1, 2001 through
June 30, 2002 and July 1, 2002
through June 30, 2003.
The contracts shall provide that the City
will receive compensation for performing such assessments in the
estimated of amount of $33,040.00 for
each contract, and such other funds
that may become available during
the contract periods.
The Director
of Finance is hereby authorized to
receive and accept such compensation on behalf of the City and the
Director of Public Health is autho-

rized to sign such documents as are
necessary to enter into said contracts.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 1500-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to terminate
Contract
No.
57325
with
Xchange Point and to enter into contract with Cleveland Treatment Center to provide services under the
2001 Federal AIDS Prevention Grant.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1636-2000, passed November 27,
2000, this Council authorized that
contracts be entered into for implementation of the 2001 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Health entered into contract with
Xchange Point, Contract No. 57325,
pursuant to that ordinance; and
Whereas, Xchange Point is now
unable to fulfill its contractual
obligations because of dissolution
yet the services they were to provide under their contract are still
necessary; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Contract No. 57325
with Xchange Point is hereby terminated.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with Cleveland Treatment Center to fulfill the
obligations of Xchange Point to provide services under the 2001 Federal
AIDS Prevention Grant.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract authorized with Cleveland
Treatment Center shall be paid from
the fund or funds authorized and
appropriated for that use.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance
Ord. No. 1501-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a project agreement with KINBESS, LLC. for the
acquisition, clearance and redevelopment of certain lands in the Hemisphere
Community
Development
Plan Area.

1948

August 22, 2001
Whereas, the Council of the City
of
Cleveland
by
Ordinance
No.
____________, passed _____________
approved and adopted the Hemisphere
Community
Development
Plan (the “Plan”), for the plan area
designated and described in said
Plan (the “Plan Area”); and
Whereas, KINBESS, LLC., has
submitted a proposal which the
Director of Economic Development
has determined to be a satisfactory means of achieving some of the
purposes described in the Plan;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into and execute a project
agreement for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with KINBESS,
LLC. (the “Redeveloper”) for the
acquisition, disposition and private
redevelopment for the Area in accordance with the provisions of the
Plan.
The Plan Area is described
as follows:
Kinsman - East 80th Street and
East 82nd Street Plan Area
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Kinsman Road S.E. (width varies)
at its intersection with the centerline of East 80th Street (60.00 feet
wide);
Thence Southerly, along said centerline of East 80th Street its intersection with the centerline of Preble
Avenue S.E. (50.00 feet wide);
Thence Easterly and Southeasterly, along said centerline of Preble
Avenue to its intersection with the
centerline of East 82nd Street (50.00
feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said centerline of East 82nd Street to its
intersection with the Southerly line
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Number 431;
Thence
Easterly,
along
said
Southerly line of Original Lot Number 431 to its intersection with the
Westerly line of a parcel of land
(PPN:
127-08-002),
conveyed
to
Kinbess LLC by deed recorded in
AFN 1999 121 50656 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence
Southerly,
along
said
Westerly line to the most Southerly
corner thereof;
Thence in a general Northeasterly
direction, along the Easterly line of
the Kinbess LLC Parcel as aforesaid, to its intersection with the centerline of Kinsman Road S.E. as
aforesaid;
Thence Northwesterly, along said
centerline of Kinsman Road to the
place of beginning.
Section 2. That the project agreement authorized herein shall include
without limitation the following
terms and conditions:
(a) an agreement by the City of
Cleveland to acquire that property
within the Plan Area which cannot
be privately acquired in a timely
fashion through reasonable negotiations;

August 22, 2001
(b) an agreement by the City of
Cleveland to convey, by official deed
or deeds, within the Plan Area, certain property more fully described
in this ordinance; provided that the
deed or deeds shall contain such
restrictive covenants, reversionary
interests or similar provisions as
may, in the judgment of the Director of Economic Development, be
required to insure the elimination
within the Plan Area of conditions
of blight and deterioration and for
the prevention of recurrence of said
conditions;
(c) a commitment by the Redeveloper to comply with all Federal
and state real property acquisition
requirements, including without limitation relocation assistance, to the
extent Federal or state funding is
used for acquisition;
(d) a commitment by the Redeveloper to pay all costs of real property acquisition within the Plan
Area;
(e) a commitment by the Redeveloper to pay all costs of demolition required to develop the Plan
Area in accordance with the Plan;
and
Section 3. That the Mayor, the
Director of Economic Development,
the Director of Law, and such appropriate City officials are authorized
to execute such certifications and
documents, and take such other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate in connection with carrying out the terms of the project
agreement and the activities contemplated by the Plan.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1502-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Notre Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordi-

The City Record
nances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-16-168 as
more fully described below to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-16-168
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
107 in W. J. Crawford and James
Parmelee’s Subdivision of part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 392, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 86th Street (formerly Marcy
Avenue) and extending back of
equal
width
120
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-16-169 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-16-169
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
108 in the W.J. Crawford and James
Parmelee’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
392, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 14 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 86th Street, and extending back between parallel lines 120
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-19-034 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-19-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 6 and 7 in M.L. Hull’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 392, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line
of Hough Avenue, N.E., at the
Southwest corner of said Sublot No.
6;
thence
Easterly
along
the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., 105.90 feet to the intersection
with the Westerly line of East 90th
Street, (formerly Harkness
Ave-

1949

13
nue); thence Northerly at an angle
of 88° 40' with the last described
course and along the Westerly line
of East 90th Street 215 feet from the
beginning point of the premises
intended to be described; thence
along the same course continued
Northerly 50 feet; thence Westerly
at right angles with the Westerly
line of said East 90th Street, 99.80
feet to the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 6; thence Southerly along
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
6 to a point where East 90th Street
and 215 feet Northerly from the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., measured along the Westerly
line of said East 90th Street would
intersect same; thence in a direct
line Easterly to the place of beginning,
being
further
known
as
Northerly 30 feet of Sublot No. 93
and the Southerly 20 feet of Sublot
No. 92 in The Fulton Building Company’s proposed Subdivision, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-20-074 as
more fully described, to Notre Dame
Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-20-074
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
392, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street, at a point Northerly 306.08 feet, measured along said
Westerly line from its intersection
with the Northerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly at
right angles to the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street, 150 feet to a point;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Westerly line of East 93rd Street, 40
feet to a point; thence Easterly parallel with the first described course,
150 feet to the Westerly line of East
93rd Street, thence Southerly along
the Westerly line of East 93rd
Street, 40 feet to the place of beginning, and being further known as
Sublot No. 11 in Odell’s Proposed
Subdivision, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-20-075 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-20-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
392, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street (formerly Holt
Street)
at
a
point
346.08
feet
Northerly
measured
along
said

14
Westerly line for its point of intersection with the Northwesterly line
of
Hough
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
Northerly along said Westerly line
of East 93rd Street, 40 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Paul Ludwig and Emma
Ludwig by deed dated October 29,
1913 and recorded in Volume 1492,
Page
370
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to said Paul Ludwig and Emma
Ludwig, 110 feet to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to Paul
Ludwig and Emma Ludwig; thence
Southerly on a line parallel to and
distant 15 feet Easterly from the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
Joanna Guneen by deed dated April
6, 1892 and recorded in Volume 515,
Page
640
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, a distance of 40 feet to a
point in the Northerly line of land
conveyed to Frank B. Herbster and
Nellie M. Herbster by deed dated
April 27, 1908 and recorded in Volume 1135, Page 612 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed to Frank B. and Nellie M.
Herbster, a distance of 110 feet to
the place of beginning and being
further known as the Easterly 110
feet of Sublot No. 12 in Jay O’Dell’s
proposed Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 392.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-22-030 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-22-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 1 to 4 inclusive in Ford
Richardson and Steward Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 393, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page
8
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, as appears by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-22-033 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-22-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 15 feet of Sublot No. 6 and the
Easterly 33 feet of Sublot No. 7 in
Ford,
Richardson
and
Stewart’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 393, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 13
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:

The City Record
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Talbot Avenue, N.E. (formerly Talbot Street) at a point distant 15 feet
Easterly
(measured
along
said
Southerly line) from the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 6;
thence Westerly along said Southerly line of Talbot Avenue, N.E., 48
feet; thence Southerly on a parallel
with the Easterly line of said Sublot
No. 7, about 109-44/100 feet to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 7;
thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 7, 33 feet to the
Southeasterly corner thereof; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line
of Sublot No. 7, 74 feet to the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 6;
thence Easterly along said Southerly line of said Sublot No. 6, 15 feet;
thence Northerly 35-34/100 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more, or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-22-034 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-22-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 7 feet of Sublot No. 7 and the
Easterly 26 feet of Sublot No. 8 in
Ford,
Richardson
and
Stewart’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 393, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 13
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 33 feet front on the
Southerly side of Talbot Avenue,
N.E., and extending back between
parallel lines about 109.46 feet on
the Easterly line, 109.58 feet on the
Westerly line and having a rear line
of 33 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-22-035 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-22-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 8 and 9, in Ford,
Richardson and Stewart’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 393, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records
and together forming a parcel of
land having 31.50 feet frontage on
the Southerly side of Talbot Avenue,
N.E. and being further described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Talbot Avenue, N.E., at the Northwesterly corner of Sublot No. 8;
thence East along the Southerly line
of Talbot Avenue, N.E. 14 feet to the

1950

August 22, 2001
principal place of beginning; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
Talbot
Avenue,
N.E.
31.50
feet;
thence South 6° 12' West 83.09 feet;
thence South 44° 12' West 13.83 feet;
thence South 0° 12' West 16.73 feet
to the Southerly line of Sublot Nos.
8 and 9; thence North 89° 47' East
41.11
feet,
measured
along
the
Southerly line of Sublot Nos. 8 and
9, to a point located 14 feet Easterly from the Southwesterly corner of
Sublot No. 8; thence North 0° 12'
East 109.58 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-22-056 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-22-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
393, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Edmunds Avenue, N.E., at a point
470 feet Easterly from the Easterly
line of East 93rd Street; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of
Edmunds Avenue, N.E., 40 feet;
thence Southerly along a line parallel with the Easterly line of East
93rd Street, 155.7 feet to the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
by Harriet A. Herr and David Z.
Herr to Charles Schmidt by deed
dated October 15, 1878, and recorded
in Volume 297, Page 345 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Southwesterly along the line of land conveyed to Charles Schmidt as aforesaid, 40.56 feet; thence Northerly
along a line parallel with the Easterly line of East 93rd Street, 161.8
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-22-057 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-22-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
393, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Edmunds Avenue, N.E., (formerly
Edmunds Street), 50 feet wide, at a
point 430 feet Easterly, measured
along said Southerly line from the
Easterly line of East 93rd Street
(formerly Holt Street), 50 feet wide;
thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Edmunds Avenue, N.E., 40
feet; thence Southerly on a line parallel with said Easterly line of East
93rd Street, 161.80 feet to the North-

August 22, 2001
westerly line of land conveyed to
the Medical Products Building Company by deed dated December 29,
1936, and recorded in Volume 4697,
Page
652
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southwesterly along
the Northwesterly line of land conveyed to the Medical Products Building Company, 40.56 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the Easterly
line of East 93rd Street, 168.30 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-020 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 15 in S.V. Harkness Subdivision as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 31 of Maps, Page 8
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
the Easterly 42.25 feet of Sublot No.
11 in Ira Adams Allotment as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of
Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County
Records, part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 400 and together
forming a parcel of land 60 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
90th
Street
(formerly
Harkness
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 183.25 feet, as appears
by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 119-08-039,
119-08-040, 119-08-041, 119-08-086 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No(s). 119-08-039, 119-08-040,
119-08-041, 119-08-086
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 31 and 32 in Stephen V. Harkness’ Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 400, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and re-survey of
said Subdivision in Volume 31 of
Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County
Records
and
more
particularly
described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 90th Street (formerly Harkness
Avenue), 60 feet wide, at the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
31; thence South 0° 00' 40" East,
along said Easterly line of East
90th Street, 120.01 feet to the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
32; thence South 89° 59' 31" East,
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 32, 141.00 feet to the
Southeasterly corner thereof; thence

The City Record
North 0° 00' 40" West, along the
Easterly line of said Sublot Nos. 32
and 31, 120.02 feet to the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 31;
thence North 89° 59' 47" West,
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 31, 141.00 feet to the place of
beginning and containing 16,923
square feet of land according to a
survey dated February 1974 by the
City of Cleveland, Department of
Community Development, Division
of Redevelopment, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-038 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-09-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga. and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly one half of Sublot No. 27
in S.V. Harkness; Subdivision, of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 400, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 31 of Maps, Page
8 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 30 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 90th Street, and extending back between parallel lines 141
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-039 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-09-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio, and known as being
the Northerly half, front and rear
of Sublot No. 27 in Stephen V.
Harkness Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
407, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Subdivision in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and the re-survey of said
Subdivision recorded in Volume 31
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 30 feet
front on the Easterly side of East
90th Street (formerly Harkness
Avenue)
and
extends
back
between parallel lines 141 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-052 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

1951

15
P. P. No. 119-09-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 and part of Sublot No. 30 in Holden and Adams Re-Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 392, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 26 of Maps, Page 24
of Cuyahoga County Records and
together forming a parcel of land
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northeasterly
line of East 90th Street, at the Northwesterly corner of Sublot No. 17;
thence
Southeasterly
along
the
Northeasterly line of East 90th
Street, 40 feet to the Southwesterly
corner of Sublot No. 17; thence Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line
of Sublot Nos. 17 and 30, 109.80 feet
to a point distant 11.15 feet Northeasterly, measured along the Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 30 from
the Southwesterly corner thereof;
thence Northwesterly parallel with
the Northeasterly line of Sublot No.
17, 40 feet to a point; thence Southwesterly in a direct line, 11.15 feet
to the Northeasterly corner of Sublot
No. 17; thence Southwesterly, along
the Northwesterly line of Sublot No.
17, 99.55 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-080 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-09-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 38 in George W. Richardson’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 392 and
393, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 51 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Amesbury
Avenue,
N.E.,
at
the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 38, thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 38,
80 feet thence Easterly parallel with
the Southerly line of Amesbury
Avenue, N.E., 25 feet to a point measured Westerly from the Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 38, thence
Northerly 80 feet to the Southerly
line of Amesbury Avenue, N.E.,
thence Westerly along said Southerly line 25 feet to the place of beginning.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-081 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

16
P. P. No. 119-09-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
37 in George W. Richardson’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 392 and 393, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 51 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Amesbury
Avenue,
N.E.,
at
the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 37; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 37, 80
feet; thence Easterly parallel with
the Southerly line of Amesbury
Avenue, N.E., 40 feet to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 37, which is
also the Westerly line of East 93rd
Street; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of East 93rd Street, 80
feet to the Southerly line of Amesbury Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly
along said Southerly line, 40 feet to
the place of beginning.
Being the most Easterly 15 feet of
the following described premises:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot
No.
38
in
George
W.
Richardson’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 392 and 393, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of
Maps, Page 51 of Cuyahoga County
Records,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Amesbury
Avenue,
N.E.,
at
the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 38; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 38,
80 feet; thence Easterly parallel
with the Southerly line of Amesbury
Avenue, N.E., 15 feet to the Easterly line of said Sublot No. 38; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line,
80 feet to the Southerly line of
Amesbury
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
Westerly along said Southerly line
15 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-083 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-09-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 41 in Charles W. Wason’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 392, 393, 400
and 401, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 26
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
parts of Sublot Nos. 37, 38 and 39 in
George W. Richardson’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 392 and 393, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 13
of Maps, Page 51 of Cuyahoga County Records and together forming a
parcel of land forming a parcel of
land bounded and described as follows:

The City Record
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street (formerly Amesbury Avenue), at a point distant 8.67
feet Northerly, measured along said
Westerly line, from the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 37 in
Richardson’s
Subdivision;
thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street, 40 feet to a point;
thence Westerly, about 120 feet to a
point on the prolongation Southerly
of the Westerly line of said Sublot
No. 39 in Richardson’s Subdivision,
distant 13 feet Southerly from the
Southwest corner of said Sublot No.
39; thence Northerly along said prolongation Southerly of the Westerly
line of said Sublot No. 39; 18 feet to
the Southwest corner of said Sublot
No. 39; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 39;
17 feet; thence Easterly to the place
of beginning, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-084 as
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-09-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 41 and 42 in Charles W.
Matilda Wason’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 392, 393, 400 and 40, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street (formerly Amesbury Avenue) at a point distant 22
feet Northerly, measured along said
Westerly line, from the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 41;
thence Southerly along said Westerly line of East 93rd Street 40 feet;
thence Westerly, about 185.24 feet to
a point, on the Westerly line of said
Sublot
No.
42,
distant
24
feet
Southerly
measured
along
said
Westerly line from the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Northerly, along said Westerly line of
Sublot No. 42, 24 feet to the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot;
thence Easterly, along the Northerly line of said Sublot No. 42, 65.26
feet to a Westerly line of land conveyed to James R. Holcomb by deed
dated September 3, 1902, and recorded in Volume 856, Page 390 of Cuyahoga
County
Records;
thence
Northerly along said Westerly line
of land so conveyed, about 9 feet to
a
Northwesterly
corner
thereof;
thence Easterly along a Northerly
line of land conveyed to James R.
Holcomb, about 120 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-09-085 as

1952

August 22, 2001
more fully described below, to Notre
Dame Community Homes, Ltd.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-09-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 42 and 43 in Charles W.
and Matilda Wason’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 392, 393, 400 and 401, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 93rd Street (formerly Amesbury Avenue) at a point 18 feet
Southerly
(measured
along
said
Westerly line) from the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 42;
thence Southerly along said Westerly line of East 93rd Street, 42 feet;
thence Westerly on a line parallel
to the Northerly line of said Sublot
No. 43 about 185 21/100 feet to the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 43;
thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot Nos. 42 and 43,
36 feet; thence Easterly about 185
24/100 feet to the place of beginning, place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 43. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 44. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 45. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 46. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to the Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1503-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 19520 Shelton Drive
to David G. Swintek.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 114-31-034,
as more fully described below, to
David G. Swintek.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 114-31-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 23 in the Elworthy-Helwick Company’s Bungalow Park
Allotment No. 2 of part of Original
Euclid Township Track No. 14, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 69 of Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being a
triangular shaped parcel of land
having a frontage of 127.88 on the
Easterly curved side of Shelton
Drive, N.E., and extending back 67.5
feet on the Northeasterly line, and
99.78 on the Southeasterly line, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public

The City Record
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1504-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing
Authority
(“CMHA”) for the hiring of a Scientific Examiner by CMHA to conduct
forensic testing and other laboratory functions for CMHA and the City
at the Scientific Investigation Unit
of the Cleveland Division of Police.
The Director of Public Safety is
authorized to execute any documents necessary to effectuate the
intent
of
this
Memorandum
of
Understanding and is authorized to
amend the Memorandum of Understanding as may be necessary.
Section 2. That the Memorandum
of Understanding shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1505-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Union Avenue to Slavic Village Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of

1953

17
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 133-02-003
and
133-02-004,
as
more
fully
described below, to Slavic Village
Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 133-02-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 26 in C.C. Morgan’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 319, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly side
of Union Avenue, S.E., (formerly
Union Street), at the Northeast corner of said Sublot No. 26; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 26, 107 feet; thence
Westerly on the line parallel to and
34 feet Northerly from the Southerly of said Sublot No. 26, 28 feet;
thence Northerly about 107 feet to
the Southerly line of Union Avenue,
S.E.; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of Union Avenue, S.E.,
28 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 133-02-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
319 bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Union Avenue,
S.E., with the Westerly line of land
conveyed to John R. Wright, by
deed dated August 21, 1908 and
recorded in Volume 1168, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said Union Avenue, S.E., 41.89 feet
to the Northeasterly corner of Sublot
No. 26 of C.C. Morgan’s Subdivision
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 23 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga
County
Records;
thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 26, 141 feet to the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 25 in
C.C. Morgan’s Subdivision aforesaid;
thence Easterly along the Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 25, 42 feet to
the Westerly line of land so conveyed to John R. Wright, as aforesaid; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of land so conveyed to
John R. Wright, about 141.51 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordi-

The City Record

18
nance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

August 22, 2001

Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.

Ord. No. 1506-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to make alterations and
modifications in Contract No. 56436, for West Side and East Side Markets Millennium Project Base Bid #2 with
RW Clark Company, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is hereby authorized to make the following
alterations and modifications in Contract No. 56436 with RW Clark Company for West Side and East Side Markets
Millennium Project Base Bid #2, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties:
Subsidiary Additions

Amount

Basement hinge change to 180 degrees
Additional fire alarm changes per Fire Prevention Bureau
Additional electrical work in basement coolers
#10, 11, 2, 3, 7, 4
Mural Glass changes
Metal panning – market building entrances
Arcade counter lights
5% for overhead and profit
Bond Cost Increase
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
TOTAL REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$

+
$

2,900.00
13,207.00
30,000.00
9,298.00
9,979.00
22,040.00
4,371.00
979.00
92,774.00

$3,044,700.00
+ 92,774.00
$3,137,474.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, countersigned by the Mayor, and consented to by the surety on said contract, which price to be paid therefor has
been agreed upon in writing and signed by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties and the Contractor.
This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $92,774.00, payable
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 183, 20 SF 191, 20 SF 300 and 20 SF 310.
Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1507-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to make alterations and
modifications in Contract No. 56521, for West Side and East Side Markets Millennium Project Base Bid #4
Envirocom Construction, Inc. for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is hereby authorized to make the following
alterations and modifications in Contract No. 56521 with Envirocom Construction, Inc. for West Side and East Side
Markets Millennium Project Base Bid #4, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties:
Subsidiary Additions
Scarify Concrete
Terminate electrical conduit – floor
Added overhead doors (6) at Arcade entries
Install bollards at gas manifold
Repair basement bumper guards & RFP boards # 5, 6, 13
Additional hardware – Market doors
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
TOTAL REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

1954

$

$
$

30,000.00
18,400.00
26,900.00
1,490.00
5,190.00
6,800.00
88,780.00

$
+
$

205,000.00
88,780.00
293,780.00

August 22, 2001

The City Record

19

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, countersigned by the Mayor, and consented to by the surety on said contract, which price to be paid therefor has
been agreed upon in writing and signed by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties and the Contractor.
This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $88,780.00, payable
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 183, 20 SF 191, 20 SF 300 and 20 SF 310.
Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.

Ord. No. 1508-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 441-01,
passed April 30, 2001, relating to the
2002 ski program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 441-01, passed April 30,
2001, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract with Boston Mills Ski Resort
to provide youth ski lessons for the
2002 ski season, payable from Fund
Nos. 01-700401-638000, and from the
fund or funds which are authorized
and appropriated for this purpose,
Request No. 32604.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 441-01, passed April
30, 2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1509-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on 9901 Madison Avenue
to Trinity Methodist Church of God.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 005-23-079,
as more fully described below, to
Trinity Methodist Church of God.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to the Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.

P.P. No. 005-23-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot Nos.
74 and 75, (excepting the Southerly
2.50 feet of each of said Sublots) in
the Fliedner and Schmidt Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 13, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 31 of Maps,
Page
16
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a parcel of land 79.02 feet front on the
Southerly side of Madison Avenue,
N.W., and extending back 111.50 feet
to the Westerly line, and 111.50 feet
on the Easterly line (which said also
the Westerly line of West 99th
Street) and having a rear line of
about 79.82 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.

Ord. No. 1510-01.
By Councilmen White, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
sixteenth
amendment
to
Lease
Agreement No. 35620 to extend the
term of the existing Lease Agreement for the rental of Broadway
YMCA
facilities
at
11300
Miles
Avenue; and to allow the City to utilize the Broadway YMCA gymnasium for a youth basketball program.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1759-85, passed June 24, 1985, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties entered into Lease Agreement No. 35620 with the Young
Men’s Christian Association for the
rental of the Broadway YMCA facilities located at 11300 Miles Avenue
for the purpose of providing recreational facilities and activities for
the City’s youth; and
Whereas, pursuant to various ordinances,
this
Council
authorized
modifications to the Lease Agreement; and
Whereas, the City wishes to further modify said Agreement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into a
sixteenth
amendment
to
Lease
Agreement No. 35620 with the Young
Men’s
Christian
Association
(“YMCA”) for the continued rental
of the Broadway YMCA facilities
located
at
11300
Miles
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio, 44105 for the purpose of providing recreational facilities and activities for the City’s
youth and the continued utilization
of the Broadway YMCA gymnasium
for a youth basketball program.
Section 2. That said sixteenth
amendment shall extend the term of
the agreement for one year to
December 31, 2001, and in consider-

1955

20
ation for the extension of the term,
the City shall pay the YMCA an
additional rental of $55,000, for a
total rental for the term, as extended, of $895,000. Said extension shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-700401638000, Request No. 32611.
Section 3. That said sixteenth
amendment shall be prepared and
approved by the Director of Law
and shall contain such provisions
as the Director of Law shall deem
necessary to protect the public
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1221-A-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease with Radiant Aviation Services to design, install and
maintain an Infrared aircraft deicing facility at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
notwithstanding, the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease with Radiant Aviation
Services (RAS) to design, install
and maintain an Infrared aircraft
deicing facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for a
term of eight (8) years, with the
rent to be offset by credits for apron
improvements constructed by and at
the expense of RAS, which will
become the property of the City.
Said Lease shall be executed no
later than six (6) months following
passage of this legislation or such
authorization to enter into said
Lease shall terminate.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1511-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Ordinance
No. 1961-2000, passed June 11, 2001,
relating
to
an
easement
to
Ameritech
for
certain
property
rights in property located at Old
Grayton Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1, 2, 4
and 5 of Ordinance No. 1961-2000,
passed June 11, 2001, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that easement interests
in the following described property
are no longer needed for public
use:
Brookpark Road Project
Easements for Ameritech
Parcel A
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 4.
Starting at the intersection of the
centerline of existing Brookpark
Road (a.k.a. State Route 17), 100.00
feet wide, and existing Old Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 37° 43' 44" East
along the said centerline of existing
Old Grayton Road, 158.53 feet;
Thence South 52° 16' 16" East,
30.00 feet to a point in the Southeasterly line of existing Old Grayton Road, at the Principal Place of
Beginning of the easement herein
intended to be described;
Thence North 37° 43' 44" East
along the said Southeasterly line of
existing Old Grayton Road, 56.09
feet to its intersection with the
Westerly line of proposed Relocated
Grayton Road;
Thence South 19° 55' 30" East
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
23.39 feet to the Northerly end of a
50.00 foot radius turnout to the
Northerly line of proposed Relocated Brookpark Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said
turnout by a curve to the right, an
arc distance of 13.42 feet, said arc
having a radius of 50.00 feet and a
chord which bears South 12° 14' 13"
East, 13.38 feet;
Thence South 37° 43' 44" West,
38.88 feet;
Thence North 52° 16' 16" West,
29.78 feet to a point in a 35.00 foot
radius turnout between the Northerly line of existing Brookpark Road
and the said Southeasterly line of
existing Old Grayton Road;
Thence Northeasterly along said
turnout by a curve to the right, an
arc distance of 3.92 feet, said arc

1956

August 22, 2001
having a radius of 35.00 feet and a
chord which bears North 34° 31' 20"
East, 3.91 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
0.0346 acres of land as described on
October 9, 2000 by R.M. Kole &
Assoc., Inc., Professional Land Surveyors.
Brookpark Road Project
Easements for Ameritech
Parcel B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 4.
Starting at the intersection of the
centerlines of existing Brookpark
Road (a.k.a. State Route 17), 100.00
feet wide, and existing Old Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 89° 45' 56" East
along the said centerline of existing
Brookpark Road, 0.78 feet;
Thence Northeasterly along the
centerline of proposed Relocated
Brookpark Road by a curve to the
left, an arc distance of 231.14 feet,
said arc having a radius of 674.07
feet and a chord which bears North
79° 53' 55" East, 230.01 feet to its
intersection with the centerline of
proposed
Relocated
Old
Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 19° 55' 30" West
along the said centerline of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
128.99 feet;
Thence South 70° 04' 30" West,
30.00 feet to a point in the Westerly line of said proposed Relocated
Grayton Road, at its intersection
with the Southeasterly line of existing Old Grayton Road, said point
also being the Principal Place of
Beginning of the easement herein
intended to be described;
Thence South 37° 43' 44" West,
11.84 feet;
Thence North 19° 55' 30" West,
53.97;
Thence Northeasterly by a curve
to the right, an arc distance of
568.68 feet, said arc having a radius
of 420.00 feet and a chord which
bears North 18° 51' 51" East, 526.22
feet;
Thence North 57° 39' 11" East,
240.86 feet;
Thence Northeasterly by a curve
to the left, an arc distance of
140.94 feet, said arc having a
radius of 340.00 feet and a chord
which bears North 45° 46' 40" East,
139.93 feet;
Thence North 33° 54' 08" East,
37.63 feet to a point in the Westerly line of existing Old Grayton
Road;
Thence South 19° 01' 18" West
along the said Westerly line of
existing Old Grayton Road, 38.94
feet to its intersection with the
Westerly line of said proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road;
Thence Southwesterly along the
said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road by a curve
to the right, an arc distance of
145.09 feet, said arc having a radius
of 350.00 feet and a chord which
bears South 45° 46' 40" West, 144.05
feet;
Thence South 57° 39' 11" West
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
240.86 feet;

August 22, 2001
Thence Southwesterly along the
said
Westerly line of proposed
Relocated Old Grayton Road by a
curve to the left, an arc distance of
555.14 feet, said arc having a radius
of 410.00 feet and a chord which
bears South 18° 51' 51" West, 513.69
feet;
Thence South 19° 55' 30" East
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
47.64 feet to the Principal Place of
Beginning and containing 0.2331
acres of land as described on
March 8, 2001 by R.M. Kole &
Assoc., Inc., Professional Land Surveyors.
Section 2. That the easements
shall be non-exclusive and the purpose of the easement shall be to
construct and maintain a vault
along Old Grayton Road (Parcel A),
and
to
install
and
maintain
telecommunications lines (Parcel
B).
Section 4. That the duration of
the easements shall be determined
by the Board of Control; that the
easements shall include reasonable
right of entry rights to the City;
that the easements shall be assignable only upon the prior approval
of the Cleveland City Council; that
the easements shall require the
grantee to indemnify the City, provide reasonable insurance, maintain
any grantee improvements located
within
the
easement,
including,
appropriate
landscaping
around
each improvement in order to conceal such improvement, and pay
any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyances
shall be made by Official Deed of
Easement prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
The Deeds of
Easement shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are
required to protect the interests of
the parties.
The Directors of Port
Control and Law are authorized to
execute
such
other
documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect the construction
of the vault along Old Grayton
Road
and
the
installation
of
telecommunications lines authorized
herein.
Section 2. That existing Sections
1, 2, 4 and 5 of Ordinance No. 19612000, passed June 11, 2001, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1512-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 863-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, relating to a
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract with St. Vincent
Quadrangle, Inc., or its designee, to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition, rehabilitation and conversion
of the Tower Press Building into
live/work affordable rental housing,
located at 1900 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 863-2000, passed June 19,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the terms of said
contract shall comply with the
requirements of the Neighborhood
Development Investment Program
and NDIF, as set forth in Section 1
of Ordinance No. 56-94, passed June
13, 1994, as amended by Ordinance
No. 2123-96, passed February 10,
1997, and shall be in accordance
with the terms as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
File No. 863-2000-B.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 863-2000, passed
June 19, 2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1513-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
for
Afterschool
Music Program through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for an Afterschool
Music Program for the public purpose of providing music education to
area youth, through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

1957

21
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $7,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1514-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement
with
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development
Corporation
for
a
Senior Citizen Social Support Program through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Department of Aging is authorized
to enter into an agreement with for
a Senior Citizen Social Support Program as described in file no. 151401-A for the public purpose of providing educational and recreational
activities to senior citizens, through
the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

22
Ord. No. 1515-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
Commission to enter into an agreement
with
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corporation for Neighborhood Master Plan through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
the City Planning Commission is
authorized to enter into an agreement with
Fairfax Renaissance
Development
Corporation
for
Neighborhood Master Plan, for the
area between East 105th Street to
Stokes Blvd. to Woodhill Road to
determine best use, through the use
of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $100,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1516-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Department of
Health to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation
for
Central
Avenue Remediation through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Department of Health is authorized
to enter into an agreement with
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation
for
Central
Avenue
Remediation in order to complete a
Phase
I
and
II
environmental
assessment on City owned land
located at East 83rd Street and Cen-

The City Record
tral Avenue, through the use of
Ward
6
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1517-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
provide free parking for a Special
Event reception for Bishop Roger
Gries on August 22, 2001, between
6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., at Willard
Park Garage.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any ordinance to the contrary, the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
is
hereby
authorized
and
directed to provide free parking at
Willard Park Garage on August 22,
2001, between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
and 9:00 p.m., for attendees at a
reception in the Rotunda of Cleveland City Hall for Bishop Roger
Gries.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

1958

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1518-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Turkey Trot Race on
November 22, 2001, sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Turkey Trot Race
sponsored by Hermes Race Systems
on November 22, 2001, beginning
with a 1 mile fun walk starting
inside Burke Lakefront Airport Driveway, exits the entrance driveway
and proceeds eastbound on the North
Marginal to just before the curve
and turns around to go westbound
on the North Marginal where it reenters where it came out. The 5K
run steps off from airport driveway
and leaves through the entrance
drive proceeding westbound on the
North
Marginal
down
Erieside
around the stadium, southbound on
W. 3rd Rd. to Lakeside, westbound
on Lakeside down under the bridge
to W. 9th where it turns onto Front
Street and goes to W. 10th, turning
southbound to St. Clair, runners turn
up the St. Clair hill and proceed
eastbound on St. Clair to W. 3rd
where they turn northbound onto W.
3rd and go to Lakeside where they
turn eastbound and go down Lakeside to E. 9th, runners turn northbound onto E. 9th, staying in the
west curb lane and go to the exit
ramp (curb lane-coned off) and
wrap around the Amtrak Station
and then proceed eastbound on to
the South Marginal. At E. 26th, they
cross over the freeway and then proceed westbound onto the North Marginal where they finish inside the
Airport, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1519-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Jake to the Rock on
September 22, 2001, sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Jake the Rock,
sponsored by Hermes Race Systems, on September 22, 2001, with
the race beginning at East 9th
Street and Carnegie Avenue and
running down East 9th Street and
finishing in front of the Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05
of
the
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may
be closed as determined by the
Chief of Police and safety forces as
may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide
that the City of Cleveland shall be
fully indemnified from any and all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1520-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of
a permit for the Light the Night
Walk on September 22, 2001, sponsored by the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Light the Night
Walk sponsored by the Leukemia &
Lymphoma Society on September 22,
2001, starting at the Galleria, participants will head north on East
9th down to the Pier and circle to

The City Record
head south on East 9th passing the
Galleria giving anyone who would
like to stop walking the opportunity to go back into the mall. Walkers will resume traveling south to
St. Clair, turning right and traveling west on St. Clair, turning left
onto Ontario and traveling south on
Ontario, upon reaching Eagle Road
walkers will turn left onto Eagle
Road traveling through the Gateway Sports Complex to E. 9th
Street, turning right onto E. 9th
Street and traveling north on E. 9th
Street. Participants will take East
9th Street north back to the Galleria, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1521-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Tremont West Development Corporation for the Phoenix
Development Project through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Tremont West Development
Corporation as an agent for the City
in arranging second mortgage assistance by the City to individuals and
families for the Phoenix Development Project for the public purpose
ensuring affordability of new residential housing for low to moderate
income families, through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

1959

23
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1522-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Cintron, Melena and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Near West Side Multi-Service Center for HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program through
the use of Ward 13, 14, 17, 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Near West Side Multi-Service
Center
for
HIV/AIDS
Education/Prevention Program for the public purpose of providing education,
outreach, counseling, and case management services to teens and young
adults residing in the City of Cleveland, through the use of Ward 13, 14,
17, 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $38,651 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

The City Record

24

August 22, 2001

Ord. No. 1523-01.
By Councilman Cintron (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Clark-Metro Development Corporation to hang 11-banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) which
will encroach into the public right-of-way between W. 41st St. & Clark Ave. & on Fulton, Daisy, Barber & Wade
Aves.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the consent of the Director of Public Service to Clark-Metro
Development Corporation, 2511 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, its successors and assigns, to install, maintain and remove eleven (11) banners to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) and which banners will encroach into the public right-of-way between West 41st Street and Clark
Avenue and on Fulton Road, Daisy Avenue, Barber Avenue and Wade Avenue at the following numbers and
locations:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

1) W. 25th & Daisy (East Side)

# MELP 38337

2) W. 25th & I-71 (just South)

# MELP 38569

3) W. 41st at Clark (near SW corner)

# AOM 3533

4) W. 41st at Clark (near NW corner)

# 37947 MELP

5) Fulton at Clark (near SW corner)

# 40444 CPP

6) 2704 Clark Ave.

# AOM 911

7) 3211 Clark Ave.

# AOM9-105

8) W. 25th & Clark Ave. (NW corner)

# AOM9-116

9) W. 25th & Clark (SW corner)

# A09-115

10) W. 25th & Barber (NW corner)

# A582

11) W. 25th & Wade (SE corner)

No Tag Number

Section 2. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way of portions of the streets as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this Ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this Ordinance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

Ord. No. 1524-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
MetroHealth
to
hang
25-banners
which will encroach into the rightof-way of Scranton Rd., W. 25th St.,
Sackett Ave., Southpoint & MetroHealth Drives, on Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of September 1, 2001 to September 30, 2001,
inclusive, to publicize their special
event.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to MetroHealth, 2500 MetroHealth Drive,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44109-1988,
to

1960

install, maintain and remove twenty-six (26) banners to be hung on
Cleveland
Public
Power
utility
poles,
(by
separate
permission)
publicizing their special event, for
the period of September 1, 2001 to
September 30, 2001, inclusive, publicizing
their special
event, and
which banners are to be hung at
the following pole locations and on
the following pole numbers: Scranton Road – 10 poles between Sackett and Southpoint (W), No Numbers or Tags on Poles; 1st Pole N.
of W. 25th (W) – No Number or Tag

August 22, 2001
on
Pole;
West
25th
–
8-poles
between Sackett and Southpoint
(E), No Numbers or Tags on Poles;
1-Pole S. of Southpoint (E), #AOM41-125; 1-Pole at 3517 W. 25th (E),
No Pole Numbers or Tags; MetroHealth Drive – 3-Poles between W.
25th and Scranton, No Numbers or
Tags on Poles; Southpoint Drive –
2-Poles between W. 25th and Scranton, No Number or Tags on Poles;
and which poles location and banners shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which banners will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial advertising shall be
printed or permitted on said banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1525-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Ignatius/Cats in
the Flats on September 23, 2001,
sponsored by St. Ignatius High
School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the St. Ignatius/Cats
in the Flats Run sponsored by the
St. Ignatius High School on September 23, 2001, beginning at St.
Ignatius High School West 30th
Street and Lorain, proceed east on
Lorain across West 25th Gehring
(RTA Rapid Station), right onto
Gehring to Abbey, left onto Abbey
to Columbus, left on Columbus to
Carter Rd., right onto Carter Rd. to
Scranton, right onto Scranton to
Kenilworth, left onto Kenilworth to
Literary, bear left onto Literary to
Professor, right onto Professor to
Jefferson, right onto Jefferson to

The City Record
Starkweather,
right
onto
Starkweather to Scranton, right onto
Scranton to Willey/Kenilworth, left
onto Willey to Train Avenue, right
onto Train Ave., to Scranton, left
onto Scranton to Carter, left on
Carter
to
Columbus,
left
onto
Columbus to Abbey, right on Abbey
to Gehring, right on Gehring to
Lorain, left on Lorain to West 29th,
right onto St. Ignatius track and
finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1526-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance a u t h orizing certain persons to engage
in peddling in Ward 14. (Cory
Boda)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council, expressed by ordinance, is a
prerequisite
to
mobile
peddling
upon the public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside
of the Central Business District,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 14;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14:

1961

25
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1527-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 14. (Clarinda
Robinson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside
of the Central Business District,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 14;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14: Clarinda
Robinson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

26
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1528-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Brady.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 367.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
665-67, passed, May 8, 1967, relating
to disbursal of funds from escrow
agents.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 367.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 665-67, passed May 8, 1967,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 367.13 Disbursal of Funds
from Escrow Agent
No person, firm or corporation
acting in the capacity of an escrow
agent in any real estate transaction
involving
the
sale
of
a
dwelling building or structure situated in the City, shall disburse
any funds unless the provisions of
Section 367.12 have been met and
the person, agent, firm or corporation
selling
an
interest
in
a
dwelling building or structure has
provided the escrow agent and
buyer with a copy of any violations issued pursuant to Housing
Code.
Section 2. That existing Section
367.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 665-67, passed May 8,
1967, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1529-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with EBC Fery Development

The City Record
Corporation for After School Community Outreach Program through
the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with EBC Fery Development Corporation for After School Community Outreach Program for the
public purpose tutoring Cleveland
public school students for proficiency testing, and special fitness
training programs, through the use
of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $52,620 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1530-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 32301, passed February 26, 2001, extending the residency compliance
period for John T. Novak.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance
323-01,
passed
February
26,2001, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 1. That, for purposes of
compliance
with
the
residency
requirement set forth in Section 74
of the Charter for John T. Novak,
this Council of the City of Cleveland
hereby extends the period for compliance until six months following
Mr. Novak’s assignment with the
U.S. Army Reserve or no later than
March 1, 2002, whichever is sooner,
at which time Mr. Novak must comply with Section 74 of the Charter.

1962

August 22, 2001
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance
323-01,
passed
February
26,2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1531-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Port Control to
extend the date for applying for participation in the sound insulation
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
notwithstanding, pursuant to Ordinance No. 2318-2000, passed December 18, 2000, the Director of Port
Control was directed to prepare
and publish a protocol for the
sound insulation program, with,
among other items, (a) the application deadline for the sound insulation program to be no sooner
than June 25, 2001; and (b) the protocol was to published at least
quarterly and furnished to the
branches of the Cleveland Public
Library located in or around the
noise impacted areas. The Director
of Port Control is hereby directed
to extend the application deadline
to a period no sooner than one (1)
year from the date of passage of
this legislation.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

The City Record

August 22, 2001

27

Ord. No. 1532-01.
By Councilman Gordon (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Archwood Denison Concerned Citizens to hang 26 banners which will encroach into the right-of-way on Pearl Rd., Denison Ave. & Fulton Rd. using C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission), identifying and locating the Archwood Denison Neighborhood area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to issue a permit to Archwood Denison Concerned Citizens, 3881 Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, its successors and assigns to construct, use and maintain
twenty-six (26) Neighborhood identification/location banners to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles,
(by separate permission), at the following pole numbers and locations:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

Pearl Road
S.W. Corner Riverside
1st pole N. of Mapledale (W)

# 38446
# 38448

Opp. NE Corner Willowdale (W)
In front of Shopping Plaza (W)
SW Corner of Archwood (W)
NW Corner of Garden (W)
1st N. of Selzer (W)
Opp. YMCA (W)

#
#
#
#
#
#

38465
No Tag
38566
38583
No Tag
No Tag

Pearl Road
1st pole N. of Cemetery (E)
1st pole N. of Willowdale (E)
1st pole S. of Willowdale (E)

# No Tag
# No Tag
# 38484

SE Corner Dobson (E)
1st pole S. of Garden (E)
NW Corner Garden (E)
At YMCA (E)

#
#
#
#

No Tag
No Tag
38583
VON2-82

Opp. SE Corner W. 31st (N)
2nd pole W. of Pearl (N)
NW Corner Pearl (N)
2nd pole E. of Pearl (N)
SW Corner of W. 24th (S)

#
#
#
#
#

36085
36082
36080
38586
38521

NW Corner W. 15th (N)
1st pole E. of W. 15th (N)

# No Tag
# No Tag

Denison Avenue

Fulton Road
1st pole S. of Freeway (W)
1st pole N. of Archwood (E)

# No Tag
# 33336

NE Corner Denison (E)
1st pole S. of Denison (E)

# No Tag
# No Tag

Section 2. That said banners will be hung within the public right-of-way of portions of the streets as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance
privilege or permission to use or attach or
nance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law,

grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right,
affix any object to poles described in Section 1 of this ordishall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any

and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

1963

28
Ord. No. 1533-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Health to enter into a First
Amendment to City Contract No. 50407
with MetroHealth Medical Center.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 93-95, passed March 27, 1995, the
City of Cleveland, through its Director of Public Health, entered into a
Lease By Way of Concession with
MetroHealth Medical Center, Contract No. 50407, for the purposes of
operating outpatient health centers
known as the Thomas McCafferty
Health
Center,
located
at
4242
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio,
44113; the Miles-Broadway Health
Center,
located
at
9127
Miles
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, 44105; and
the J. Glen Smith Health Center,
located at 11100 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio, 44108; and
Whereas, the City and MetroHealth began its partnership in
operating the health centers in 1992
and Contract No. 50407 expanded the
role and duties of MetroHealth with
respect to the health centers; and
Whereas, as cited in Contract No.
50407, in entering into the partnership to operate the health centers,
the City and MetroHealth determined that the affiliation would: (i)
better provide for the health and
welfare of the people of the State of
Ohio, the County of Cuyahoga, and
the City of Cleveland, by enhancing
the
availability,
efficiency,
and
economy of Hospital Facilities, as
defined in Section 140.01 of the Ohio
Revised Code, and the services rendered thereby; (ii) provide for cooperation between the City and MetroHealth in the utilization of the
shared facilities and services to
obtain economies in operation and
more effective health services; and
(iii) provide efficient operation of
facilities for health services of the
general public without discrimination by reason of race, creed, color
or national origin; and (iv) preserve
and enhance the similar missions
and objectives of the City and
MetroHealth; and
Whereas, the original term of Contract No. 50407 with MetroHealth
expired in June, 2000; however, since
that date, MetroHealth has continued to operate the health centers
and to provide for the medical needs
of the citizens of Cleveland on a
month-to-month basis pending resolution of negotiations concerning a
new lease; and
Whereas, by letter dated June 29,
2001, MetroHealth received a notice
from the Director of Public Health
to vacate the health centers immediately; and
Whereas, this Council is greatly
concerned about assuring that high
quality health care services are
accessible to all citizens of the City
of Cleveland regardless of their
social or economic circumstances; and
Whereas, this Council desires to
ensure that there is no gap in the
provision of health care services for
the residents of our city at the
McCafferty, Miles-Broadway, and J.
Glen Smith health centers; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, and safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 to
the contrary, the Director of Public

The City Record
Health is authorized and directed to
enter into a First Amendment to
Contract No. 50407 with MetroHealth
Medical Center extending the term
thereof until November 30, 2001, with
all other terms and conditions to
remain in effect.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Health shall work to ensure
that the residents of the City of
Cleveland have uninterrupted access
to primary health care at the health
centers and that the residents of
Cleveland continue to receive quality medical care at the McCafferty,
Miles-Broadway and J. Glen Smith
health facilities.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1534-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contracts with Medical Mutual of Ohio,
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, HMO Health Ohio, Kaiser Permanente, Aetna US Healthcare, Inc.
to provide medical and life insurance coverage for City employees;
and to enter into contract with Medical Mutual of Ohio to provide group
dental insurance for City employees;
and authorizing said Director to
enter into contract with a carrier to
provide
group
vision
insurance,
effective April 1, 2002, for eligible
City employees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Medical
Mutual of Ohio for SuperMed Plus
group preferred provider medical
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a twenty
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Medical
Mutual of Ohio for SuperMed Select
point of service-style health insurance coverage for City of Cleveland
employees for a twenty month term
commencing September 1, 2001, on
the basis of its proposal dated April
20, 2001, as amended.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleve-

1964

August 22, 2001
land, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for
group term life insurance coverage
for City of Cleveland employees for
a twenty month term commencing
September 1, 2001, and for voluntary additional group term life
insurance coverage at no additional cost to the City, through Mutual
Health Services Company, Section
125 Premium Pass Through services.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with HMO
Health Ohio for health maintenance
organization-style
group
health
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a twenty
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 5. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Kaiser
Permanente for health maintenance
organization-style
group
health
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a twenty
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Aetna U.S.
Healthcare, Inc. for health maintenance organization-style group health
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a four
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
contract with Medical Mutual of
Ohio to provide group dental insurance coverage for eligible City of
Cleveland employees and officers
for a twenty month term commencing September 1, 2001.
Section 8. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to contract with
a carrier to provide group vision
insurance for eligible City employees.
The compensation to be paid
for such services shall be set by the
Board of Control.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1535-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 59th and 57th
Streets to Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc., or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-28-030,
118-28-050 and 118-28-051, as more
fully described below, to Burten,
Bell, Carr Development Inc., or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-28-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet 6 inches from
front to rear of Sublot No. 234 in
W.S. Chamberlain’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 334 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Said part of Sublot No. 234 has a
frontage of 30 feet 6 inches on the
Westerly side of East 59th Street
(formerly
First
Avenue),
and
extends back between parallel lines
150 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 118-28-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly part of Sublot No. 14 in
the W.S. Chamberlain’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Township Lot No. 334 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Southerly part of
Sublot No. 14 has a frontage of 25
feet on the Easterly side of East
57th Street (60 feet wide), extends
back between parallel lines 150 feet
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 14 and contains 0.0861
acres of land, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 118-28-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 25 feet front and rear of
Sublot No. 15 in W.B. Chamberlain’s

The City Record
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 334, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 25 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 57th Street
(formerly New Street), and extending back of equal width 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1536-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling at East 40th Street and
Central Avenue in Ward 5. (Maria
K. Dimarhos)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

1965

29
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Maria K.
Dimarhos at East 40th Street and
Central Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1537-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling at East 22nd Street and
Cedar Avenue in Ward 5. (Maria K.
Dimarhos)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Maria K.
Dimarhos at East 22nd Street and
Cedar Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

30
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1538-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Clyde Johnson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Clyde
Johnson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1539-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling at East 40th Street and
Woodland Avenue in Ward 5. (Emmanuel Konstantinou)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified

The City Record
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Emmanuel
Konstaninou at East 40th Street and
Woodland Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1540-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (James Majors)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: James
Majors.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified

1966

August 22, 2001
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1541-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling
in
Ward
5.
(Clarinda
Robinson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Clarinda
Robinson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1542-01.
By Councilmen Coats, Jackson,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to accept a grant from
the State of Ohio for the 2001 Water
Tower Project; and to enter into contract with FAMICOS Foundation for
painting and power washing eligible homes in the vicinity of Water
Tower Industrial Park.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept a grant in the
amount of $300,000, from the State of
Ohio, to conduct the 2001 Water
Tower Project, for the purposes set
forth in the award letter and according thereto; that the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the award letter
for said grant.
Section 2. That the award letter
for said grant, File No. 1542-01-A,
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with
FAMICOS
Foundation
for
implementation of the program as
described in the award letter contained in the file, payable from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance. (RL 45713)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1543-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with LTV Corporation and/or LTV Steel Company, Inc.
to provide for a ten year abatement
for certain tangible personal property and real estate taxes as an
incentive to expand and improve
their facility at 3100 E. 45th Street,
and for the acquisition of machinery
and equipment located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the

The City Record
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, LTV Corporation and/or
LTV
Steel
Company,
Inc.
(the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to LTV
Corporation and/or LTV Steel Company, Inc.; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for abatement of certain
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes for a ten year period
beginning in the year such taxes
first become due as an incentive to
LTV Corporation and/or LTV Steel
Company, Inc; said abatement shall
be subject to annual review of the
Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the schedule of investments set forth in File No. 1543-01A. The terms of said file notwithstanding, the terms of the tax abatement shall not be amended, nor
shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable to any entity,
without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

1967

31
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1544-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
LTV Corporation and/or LTV Steel
Company, Inc. to provide financial
assistance for the purpose of retaining LTV Steel and its employees in
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with LTV Corporation and/or LTV
Steel Company, Inc to provide financial assistance for the purpose of
retaining LTV Steel and its employees in Cleveland.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 1544-01-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Four Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($4,500,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request No.
22706, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral as
set forth in the Executive Summary
contained in the file referenced
above in order to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared and approved
by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is hereby authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit said
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of Law
is hereby authorized to prepare said
contract and such other documents
as may be appropriate to complete
the transaction. Said contract shall
provide that LTV Corporation and/or
LTV Steel Company, Inc. shall adopt
and use good faith efforts to hire
City residents on contracts for capital improvement projects.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

32
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1545-01.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 1. (Carl C. Williams)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 1; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 1: Carl C.
Williams.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1546-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Ministerial Day Care to stretch
a banner at East 82nd Street and
Hough Avenue (northwest corner of

The City Record
East 82nd Street and Hough Avenue
and southwest corner of East 82nd
Street and Hough Avenue), for the
period from August 15, 2001 to September 15, 2001, inclusive, publicizing the Community Health Fair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Ministerial
Day Care to install, maintain and
remove banners at East 82nd Street
and Hough Avenue (northwest corner of East 82nd Street and Hough
Avenue and southwest corner of
East 82nd Street and Hough Avenue), for the period from August 15,
2001 to September 15, 2001, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1547-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on scattered sites to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore

1968

August 22, 2001
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-034 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
56 in Luther and Arvilla Moses Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue and extending back of equal
width 150 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-035 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
54 in the Luther Moses “et. al.” Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue,
and
extending
back
between parallel lines 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-036 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
52 in Luther Moses Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
48 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Lexington Avenue, and
extending back of equal width 150
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-089 as
more fully described, to Famicos
Foundation Inc., or designee.

August 22, 2001
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Lot No. 340 and being a
tract of land 40 feet front on Utica
Avenue and 10 feet deep, the shape
of a rectangle said property being
the East part of a tract of land 600
feet East of East 55th Street, joined
on the North by Lot No. 17 and is
the same tract of land described in
Tax Sale Certificate No. 817 in Cuyahoga County Tax Sales for 1903, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-100 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 in Luther and Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga Records,
and being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Lexington Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width, 150 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-101 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 15 in Luther and Arvilla
Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line
of Lexington Avenue, N.E., (formerly Moses Avenue) at the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
15; thence Easterly along
said
Northerly
line
of
Lexington
Avenue, N.E., 40 feet to the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
15; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 15,
100 feet; thence Westerly 40 feet to
a point in the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 15, 100 feet Southerly
from the place of beginning; thence
Northerly along said Westerly line
100 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.

The City Record
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-102 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-102
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 105 feet of Sublot No. 13
in Luther and Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Lexington
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Moses
Avenue) and extending back of
equal
width
105
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976 the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-103 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-103
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 100 feet, from front to
rear, of Sublot No. 11 in Luther and
Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 48 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Lexington Avenue, N.E., and
extending back of equal width 100
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 133.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-046 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N,E., at a point distant 400 feet Easterly, measured
along said Northerly line from the
Easterly line of East 55th Street,
(formerly Wilson Avenue); thence
Easterly, along the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 40 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the Easterly
line of East 55th Street, 140 feet;
thence Westerly parallel with the
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,

1969

33
N.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly parallel with the Easterly line of East
55th Street, 140 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Subject to easement recorded in
Volume 1717, Page 110 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-047 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 60 feet wide
at a point 440 feet Easterly measured along said Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E. from its point
of intersection with the Easterly
line of East 55th Street, 100 feet
wide; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 33 feet; thence Northerly on a
line parallel to the Easterly line of
said Easterly 55th Street, 140 feet;
thence Westerly on a line parallel
to said Northerly line of Quimby
Avenue,
N.E.,
33
feet;
thence
Southerly 140 feet to the place of
beginning, and being further known
as the Westerly 33 feet from front
to rear of Sublot No. 11 in L.M.
Southern’s Proposed Allotment.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-085 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., distant 800 feet Easterly (measured along said Northerly line),
from the Easterly line of East 55th
Street; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Northerly parallel with said Easterly line of East
55th Street, 140 feet; thence Westerly parallel with said Northerly line
of Quimby Avenue, N.E., 40 feet;
thence Southerly parallel with said
Easterly line of East 55th Street, 140
feet to the place of beginning.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-088 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.

34
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 930 feet Easterly measured along said Northerly
line, from its point of intersection
with the Easterly line of East 55th
Street; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E.; 40 feet; thence Northerly on a
line parallel to said Easterly line of
East 55th Street, 140 feet; thence
Westerly on a line parallel to said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly 140
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-069 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
3 in Zoeter and Decker’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
30
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 66th Street
(formerly Duhham Avenue) and
extends back between parallel lines
172 feet to an alley in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any,
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-078 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in the Holden and Halle’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 7 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E. (formerly Astor Avenue) and extending back of equal
width 128 feet, 1 inch as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordi-

The City Record
nances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-079 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Items
shown
on
plat
recorded in Volume 7, Page 14 and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Lawnview Avenue, 128 feet
deep, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-080 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
66 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 128 feet deep be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-09-049 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-09-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
76 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E. (formerly Astor Avenue), and extending back between
parallel lines about 128 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 106-12-037
as more fully described below, to
Famicos
Foundation
Inc.,
or
designee.

1970

August 22, 2001
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No.
41
in Holden
and
Halle’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Lawnview Avenue, N.E., (formerly
Aster Avenue), and extending back
of equal width 128 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-002 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known and described as
follows: And known as being Sublot
No. 45 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 7 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 128 feet deep, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-024 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
30 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Linwood
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 128 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-026 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

August 22, 2001
P. P. No. 106-13-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 28 and 29 in Holden and
Halle’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., distant West 51.57 feet from
the Southeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 29; thence West along the
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., 28.43 feet to the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 28; thence
North 0° 04' 00" East along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 28,
128 feet to the Northwesterly corner
thereof; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said Sublot Nos. 28
and 29, 41.69 feet to a point distant
South 0° 04' 00" West, parallel with
the Easterly line of said Sublot No.
29, 42.73 feet, thence South 61° 17'
00" West 15.13 feet; thence South 0°
04' 00" West parallel with the Easterly line of said Sublot No. 29, 78
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
7210, Page 66 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-027 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 35 feet of Sublot No. 27 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 341 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 35 feet front on the Northerly
side of Linwood Avenue, N.E., and
extending back of equal width 128
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-028 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Southerly
85 feet of Sublot No. 26 and the
Southerly 85 feet of the Westerly 5
feet of Sublot No. 27 in Holden and
Halles Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records, together forming a

The City Record
parcel of land 45 feet front on the
Northerly side of Linwood Avenue,
N.E. and extending back of equal
width 85 feet along the Easterly line
of East 70th Street, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-049 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
144 in Streator and Adams Re-Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Re-Subdivision in Volume 13 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records, being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., (formerly Beecher Street) and
extending back between parallel
lines, 151.19, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-051 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
146 in Streator and Adams Re-Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 13 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Linwood Avenue, N.E., and extending back between parallel lines
151.19 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 51. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-090 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 201 and 202 in Streator
and Adams Re-Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 338 and 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Pages 6 and 7 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 70th Street, at a point distant

1971

35
65 feet 6 inches Southerly, measured
along said Westerly line, from its
intersection with the Southerly line
of Quimby Avenue, N.E.; thence
Westerly; parallel with the Southerly line of Quimby Avenue, N.E., 111
feet 2 inches to a point; thence
Southerly on a line parallel with the
Westerly line of East 70th Street,
about 34.41 feet to a point on said
parallel
line,
distant
8.72
feet
Southerly from the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 202; thence Easterly
parallel with the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 202, 111 feet 2 inches to the Westerly line of East 70th
Street; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of East 70th Street, 35
feet to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 53. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-091 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-091
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 202 in Streator and
Adams Re-Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 338 and 341 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 70th Street (formerly Russell
Avenue) at the Southeasterly corner
of said Sublot No. 202; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East 70th Street, about 36.28 feet to
the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Nellie F. O’Neil by deed
dated May 22, 1906 and recorded in
Volume 1035, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along the southerly line of land so
conveyed to Nellie F. O’Neil, about
111 feet 2 inches to the Easterly line
of land conveyed to Julius Ewanofsky by deed dated March 15, 1932
and recorded in Volume 4226, Page
108 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Southerly along the Easterly
line of land conveyed to Julius
Ewanofsky about 36.28 feet to the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 202;
thence Easterly along the Southerly
line of Sublot No. 202, about 111 feet
2 inches to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 55. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-111 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-111
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 184 in Streator and
Adams Re-Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 338 and 341 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,

36
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 70th Street (formerly Russell
Avenue) at a point 34 feet Southerly measured along said Easterly
line from the Northwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 184; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line
of East 70th Street, 34 feet to the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 184; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 184,
90 feet; thence Southerly on a line
parallel to the Easterly line of East
70th Street, 34 feet; thence Westerly
90 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 57. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-112 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 58. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 183 in the Re-Subdivision
made by Streator and Adams of part
of Streator and Adams Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341 the plat
of which is recorded in Volume 13
of Maps, Pages 6 and 7 of Cuyahoga
County
Records
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly side of
Russell Avenue (now known as
East 70th Street) at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 183;
thence Easterly along the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 183, 101 feet;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Russell Avenue 33 feet; thence Westerly parallel with the Southerly line
of said Sublot No. 183, 101 feet to the
Easterly line of Russell Avenue;
thence Southerly along the Easterly
line of Russell Avenue, 33 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 59. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-017 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 60. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 11 in W.J. Kinnard’s ReSubdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Hough
Avenue,
N.E.
(formerly
Hough Avenue) at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 11;
thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Hough Avenue, N.E., 45
feet; thence Northerly on a line parallel to said Westerly line of Sublot
No. 11, 118 feet; thence Westerly on

The City Record
a line parallel to said Northerly line
of Hough Avenue, N.E., 45 feet to
said Westerly line of Sublot No. 11;
thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 11, 118 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 61. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-018 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 62. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-018
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 36 feet of the Southerly 125 feet
of Sublot No. 11 and the Westerly 7
feet of the Southerly 125 feet of Sublot
No. 12 in W.J. Kinnard’s Re-Allotment
of Sublot Nos. 23 to 27 inclusive, and
Nos. 32 to 36 inclusive, of Sapp’s Subdivision of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Re-Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 28
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
parts of said Sublot Nos. 11 and 12
together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 43 feet on the
Northerly side of Hough Avenue, N.E.,
and extending back between parallel
lines 125 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 63. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-021 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 64. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 38 in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
38;
thence
Easterly
along
the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., 50 feet to the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 38; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 38, 125 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Anna C. Ogle by deed dated
January 12, 1900, and recorded in
Volume 745, Page 217 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of land so
conveyed, 50 feet to the Westerly
line of said Sublot No. 38; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
said Sublot, 125 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any

1972

August 22, 2001
Section 65. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-022 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 66. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 39 in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 341 and 344, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
39; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 39, 109
feet; thence Easterly along a line
parallel with said Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., 25 feet; thence
Southerly along a line parallel with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
39, 109 feet to said Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E., 25 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 67. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies; is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-024 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 68. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 124 feet of Sublot No. 40
in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 341 and 344, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Northerly side of Hough Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 124.00 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 69. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-028 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 70. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 39 in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 341 and 344, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,

August 22, 2001
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and forming a parcel of
land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Belvidere
Avenue, N.E., as shown by the plat
of dedication of fair court widening
(now known as Belvidere Avenue,
N.E.) in Volume 33 of Maps, Page 5
of Cuyahoga County Records, with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
39; thence Southerly along said
Westerly line of Sublot No. 39, 83.97
feet; thence Easterly along a line
parallel with the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 39, 25.00 feet to the
Southwesterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Arnold H. Forbes
and Margaret Forbes by deed dated
July 13, 1939 and recorded in Volume 4972, Page 284 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Arnold H. Forbes and
Margaret Forbes and parallel with
said Westerly line of Sublot No. 39,
84.185 feet to said Southerly line of
Belvidere Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly along said Southerly line of
Belvidere Avenue, N.E., 25.00 feet to
the place of beginning as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 71. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 72. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 73. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 74. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1548-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1417 East 82nd Street
to Roosevelt Pendleton and Elizabeth Pendleton.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-07-089,
as more fully described below, to
Roosevelt Pendleton and Elizabeth
Pendleton.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-07-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
383 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the Easterly line of East 82nd Street (formerly Genesee Avenue) 66 feet wide
at a point 240 feet Southerly (measured along said Easterly line)
from it point of intersection with
the
Southerly
line
of
Decker
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Gale
Avenue)
44
feet
wide
thence
Southerly along said Easterly line
of East 82nd Street, 40 feet; thence
Easterly parallel with the Northerly line of Wade Park Avenue, N.E.,
about 140.28 feet to a point 102 feet
Westerly from the Westerly line of
East 84th Street (44 feet wide);
thence Northerly parallel with said
Westerly line of East 84th Street, 40
feet, thence Westerly about 140.27
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions

1973

37
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1549-01.
By Councilmen Lewis and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Recovery Resources to
provide services relating to the
Employee Assistance Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to enter into a
contract with Recovery Resources
for the professional services necessary to administer assistance to City
employees and their families in dealing with personal difficulties, including but not limited to family difficulties, marriage problems, financial
concerns, legal issues, alcohol and
drug problems, workplace problems,
emotional and stress-related difficulties,
in
the
estimated
sum
of
$150,000.00, payable from Fund No.
01-999800-638000, Request No. 11621,
for the Department of Personnel and
Human Resources.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

38
Ord. No. 1550-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on Pleasant Valley Road to
the Board of Commissioners of
Cuyahoga County; and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
execute a temporary construction
easement granting certain temporary easement rights to the Board
of
Commissioners
of
Cuyahoga
County in property located on Pleasant Valley Road for a roadway
improvement project.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities has requested the sale of
City-owned property no longer needed for public use and located on
Pleasant Valley Road to the Board
of
Commissioners
of
Cuyahoga
County; and
Whereas, the Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County has
requested the Director of Public
Utilities to convey certain rights
regarding a temporary construction
easement in property located at
Pleasant Valley Road; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
entered into an Indenture of Mortgage agreement with National City
Bank, known as the Trustee, for the
issuance of Waterworks Improvement First Mortgage Revenue Bonds
on November 1, 1977, as amended
and supplemented from time to time;
and
Whereas, there has been no default
under the Indenture of Mortgage
which has not been remedied; and
Whereas, Article VII of the Indenture of Mortgage provides the method
of requesting from the Trustee a
release of real property from the
operation and lien of the Indenture
of the Indenture of Mortgage; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
PLEASANT VALLEY ROAD (CR 39)
Widening and Improvement
Auditor’s Parcel No. 454-18-004
Right-of-Way Map No. M-4923
PID No. 10901
PARCEL NO. 193WD
Situated in the City of Parma,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Parma Township Lot No. 33
and also being part of land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by
deed recorded in Volume 8432, Page
290 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at an iron monument
at the intersection of the Easterly
line of Original Lot No. 33 with the
centerline of Pleasant Valley Road
at Sta. 121+92.52 of said road;
Thence South 89° 11' 00" West for
629.00 feet along the centerline of
Pleasant Valley Road to the principal place of beginning, said point is
at Station 115+63.51;
Thence South 00° 21' 15" East for
40.00 feet along the Grantor’s East-

The City Record
erly line to a point on the proposed
right of way line of said Pleasant
Valley Road;
Thence South 89° 11' 00" West for
80.00 feet along said proposed right
of way line to a point on the
Grantor’s Westerly line;
Thence North 00° 21' 15" West for
40.00 feet along the Grantor’s Westerly line to the centerline of said
Pleasant Valley Road;
Thence North 89° 11' 00" East for
80.00 feet along the centerline of
said Pleasant Valley Road to the
Principal Place of Beginning;
Containing with said bounds 3,200
square feet (0.073 acres) inclusive of
the present road which occupies
2,400 square feet (0.055 acres).
Description of the above parcel is
based on a survey made by Terin J.
Kaminski, Registered Surveyor No.
7207.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County at a price no less than
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the City of Cleveland hereby requests pursuant to
Article VII of the Indenture of Mortgage
that
National
City
Bank,
Trustee, release from the operation
and lien of that Mortgage the abovedescribed property.
Section 4. That the Directors of
Public Utilities and Finance are
authorized to execute documents
and sign such instruments and take
such actions as may be requested by
the Trustee to secure the release of
the above-described property.
Section 5. That the conveyance
shall be made by warranty deed to
be prepared by the Director of Law
and executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified
by the Board of Control or Director
of Law protecting the parties as
their respective interests require and
reserving to the City the following
described easement rights and any
other provisions protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain
a provision against the erection of
any advertising signs or billboards
except permitted identification signs.
Section 6. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
below-described, non-exclusive, temporary construction easement interest to the Board of County Commissioners at a price not less than fair
market value as determined by the
Board of Control:
PLEASANT VALLEY ROAD (CR 39)
Widening and Improvement
Auditor’s Parcel No. 454-18-004
Right-of-Way Map No. M-4923
PID No. 10901
Parcel No. 193T
Situated in the City of Parma,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Parma Township Lot No. 33
and also being part of land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by
deed recorded in Volume 8432, Page
290 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at an iron monument
at the intersection of the Easterly
line of Original Lot No. 33 with the

1974

August 22, 2001
centerline of Pleasant Valley Road
at Sta. 121+92.52 of said road;
Thence South 89° 11' 00" West for
709.00 feet along the centerline of
Pleasant Valley Road to a point;
Thence South 00° 21' 15" East for
40.00 feet to a point, said point being
40.00 feet right of Sta. 114 + 83.20
of Pleasant Valley Road centerline
and the principal place of beginning;
Thence North 89° 11' 00" East for
80.00 feet along the proposed right
of way line to a point on the
Grantor’s Easterly line;
Thence South 00° 21' 15" East for
10.44 feet along the Grantor’s Easterly line to a point;
Thence North 88° 36' 41" West for
20.47 feet to a point;
Thence South 59° 36' 29" West for
50.11 feet to a point;
Thence North 73° 50' 44" West for
16.86 feet to a point on the Grantor’s
Westerly line;
Thence North 00° 21' 15" West for
29.46 feet along the Grantor’s Westerly line to the Point of Beginning.
Description of the above parcel is
based on a survey made by Terin J.
Kaminski, Registered Surveyor No.
7207.
It is understood that the strip of
land above described contains 1,676
square feet (0.038 acres), more or less.
Section 7. That the temporary construction easement shall be nonexclusive and the purpose of the
easement shall be for a roadway
improvement project that includes
pavement widening.
Section 8. That the duration of the
temporary
construction
easement
shall be as long as necessary to
complete the easement may include
reasonable access rights; that the
temporary
construction
easement
shall be assignable; that the temporary construction easement shall
require the grantee to indemnify the
City, provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any grantee improvements
located within the temporary construction easement, and pay any
applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 9. That the temporary construction easement referred to above
shall be made by a temporary rightof-way agreement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Utilities on behalf
of the City of Cleveland. The temporary right-of-way agreement shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the parties. The
Directors of Public Utilities and Law
are authorized to execute such other
documents, including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as
may be necessary to effect the construction of the road improvements
within the property described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1551-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1743-99, passed June
15, 2000, direct service water rates
within Cleveland, regular and special homestead, direct service water
rates in Cuyahoga County except
Cleveland, regular and special homestead and direct service water rates
in Summit and Medina Counties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules,
and regulations of the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for water service, fixed by the
Board of Control, be and the same
are hereby approved.
Section 2. That Sections 535.04,
535.05 and 535.06 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 174399, passed June 15, 2000, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Section
535.04
Direct
Service
Water Rates within Cleveland; Regular and Special Homestead
(a)
Regular
beginning
1/1/01
through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Seven Dollars
and Fifty-Nine Cents ($7.59).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Sixteen
Dollars
and
Twenty-Three
Cents ($16.23) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(b)
Regular
beginning
1/1/02
through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Seven Dollars
and Eight-Five Cents ($7.85).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Sixteen
Dollars
and
Eighty
Cents
($16.80) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(c)
Regular
beginning
1/1/03
through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service, and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Eight Dollars
and Thirteen Cents ($8.13).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Seventeen Dollars and Thirty-Eight
Cents ($17.38) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(d)
Regular
beginning
1/1/04
through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of

The City Record
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Eight Dollars
and Forty-One Cents ($8.41).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Seventeen
Dollars
and
Ninety-Nine
Cents ($17.99) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(e) Regular beginning 1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Eight Dollars
and Seventy-One Cents ($8.71).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Eighteen Dollars and Sixty-Two Cents
($18.62) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(f) Large Industrial Customers.
All
water
used
in
excess
of
62,500,000 cubic feet during a three
month
billing
period
shall
be
charged at a rate of seventy-five
percent (75%) of the rate prescribed
in this section for water used in
excess of one thousand (1,000) cubic
feet.
(g) Customers supplied from more
than one service district. Customers
with premises supplied with water
from more than one service district
shall be billed at the rate for the
service district from which the predominant quantity of water is supplied.
(h) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/01 through 12/31/01
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Sixty-One Cents ($3.61).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three Dollars and Sixty-One Cents
($3.61) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(i) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/02 through 12/31/02
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Sixty-Eight Cents ($3.68).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three Dollars and Sixty-Eight Cents
($3.68) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(j) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/03 through 12/31/03
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead

1975

39
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Seventy-Four Cents ($3.74).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three
Dollars
and
Seventy-Four
Cents ($3.74) for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less used by each homestead
during each three month billing
period.
(k) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/04 through 12/31/04
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Eighty-One Cents ($3.81).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three Dollars and Eighty-One Cents
($3.81) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(l) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/05
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Eighty-Seven Cents ($3.87).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three
Dollars
and
Eighty-Seven
Cents ($3.87) for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less used by each homestead
during each three month billing
period.
(m) The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application
form for the homestead rate and
have final approval on all applications.
Section
535.05
Direct
Service
Water Rates in Cuyahoga County
Except Cleveland; Regular and Special Homestead
(a)
Regular
beginning
1/1/01
through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Thirteen Dollars and FiftyFour Cents ($13.54). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Twenty-Eight Dollars and
Eighty-Nine Cents ($28.89) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Fifteen
Dollars
and
Sixty-Four
Cents ($15.64). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Four Dollars and

40
Seventeen Cents ($34.17) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the
third high service district. The minimum charge for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less of water used during
each three month billing period
shall be Eighteen Dollars and Thirty-Six Cents ($18.36). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Nine Dollars and
Twenty-Two Cents ($39.22) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(b)
Regular
Beginning
1/1/02
through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fourteen Dollars ($14.00).
All water used in excess of 1,000
cubic feet during each three month
billing period shall cost TwentyNine Dollars and Eighty-Eight Cents
($29.88) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Sixteen Dollars and Seventeen Cents
($16.17). All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Thirty-Five Dollars and Thirty Cents
($35.30) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the
third high service district. The minimum charge for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less of water used during
each three month billing period
shall be Eighteen Dollars and Ninety-Seven Cents ($18.97). All water
used in excess of 1,000 cubic feet
during each three month billing
period shall cost Forty Dollars and
Fifty-Three Cents ($40.53) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(c)
Regular
beginning
1/1/03
through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fourteen Dollars and FortyEight Cents ($14.48). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period shall
cost Thirty Dollars and Ninety-One
Cents ($30.91) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Sixteen Dollars and Seventy-Two
Cents ($16.72). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty Six Dollars and
Forty-Eight Cents ($36.48) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the
third high service district. The minimum charge for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less of water used during
each three month billing period
shall be Nineteen Dollars and Sixty

The City Record
Cents ($19.60). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Forty-One Dollars and
Eighty-Eight
Cents
($41.88)
per
1,000 cubic feet.
(d)
Regular
beginning
1/1/04
through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fourteen Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($14.98). All water
used in excess of 1,000 cubic feet
during each three month billing
period shall cost Thirty-One Dollars
and Ninety-Eight Cents ($31.98) per
1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Seventeen Dollars and Twenty-Nine
Cents ($17.29). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Seven Dollars and
Seventy Cents ($37.70) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the third
high service district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Twenty
Dollars
and
Twenty-Six
Cents ($20.26). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period shall
cost Forty-Seven Dollars and FortyThree Dollars and Twenty-Eight
Cents (43.28) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(e) Regular beginning 1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fifteen Dollars and Fifty
Cents ($15.50). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Three Dollars and
Eight Cents ($33.08) per 1,000 cubic
feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Seventeen Dollars and Eighty-Eight
Cents ($17.88). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Eight Dollars and
Ninety-Six Cents ($38.96) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the
third high service district. The minimum charge for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less of water used during
each three month billing period
shall be Twenty Dollars and NinetyThree Cents ($20.93). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall be Forty-Four Dollars and Seventy-Three Cents ($44.73) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(f) Large Industrial Customers.
All
water
used
in
excess
of

1976

August 22, 2001
62,500,000 cubic feet during a three
month
billing
period
shall
be
charged at a rate of seventy-five
percent (75%) of the rate prescribed
in this section for water used in
excess of one thousand (1,000) cubic
feet.
(g) Customers supplied from more
than one service district. Customers
with premises supplied with water
from more than one service district
shall be billed at the rate for the
service district from which the predominant quantity of water is supplied.
(h) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/01 through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Thirty-Two Cents ($6.32).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Thirty-Two Cents
($6.32) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Twenty-Four Cents ($8.24).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Eight
Dollars
and
Twenty-Four
Cents ($8.24) for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less used by each homestead
during each three month billing
period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and Forty-Nine Cents ($10.49). There
shall be a minimum charge of Ten
Dollars
and
Forty-Nine
Cents
($10.49) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(i) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/02 through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Forty-Three Cents ($6.43).

August 22, 2001
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Forty-Three Cents
($6.43) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Thirty-Seven Cents ($8.37).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Eight
Dollars
and
Thirty-Seven
Cents ($8.37) for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less used by each homestead
during each three month billing
period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and Sixty-Four Cents ($10.64). There
shall be a minimum charge of Ten
Dollars
and
Sixty-Four
Cents
($10.64) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(j) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/03 through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Fifty-Four Cents ($6.54).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Fifty-Four Cents
($6.54) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Fifty Cents ($8.50). There
shall be a minimum charge of Eight
Dollars and Fifty Cents ($8.50) for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less used
by each homestead during each
three month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person

The City Record
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and Seventy-Nine Cents ($10.79).
There shall be a minimum charge of
be Ten Dollars and Seventy-Nine
Cents ($10.79) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(k) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/04 through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Sixty-Six Cents ($6.66).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Sixty-Six Cents
($6.66) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Sixty-Three Cents ($8.63).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Eight Dollars and Sixty-Three Cents
($8.63) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and
Ninety-Four
Cents
($10.94).
There shall be a minimum charge of
be Ten Dollars and Ninety-Four
Cents ($10.94) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(l) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars
and
Seventy-Seven
Cents
($6.77). There shall be a minimum

1977

41
charge of Six Dollars and SeventySeven Cents ($6.77) for the first
1,000 cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Seventy-Six Cents ($8.76).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Eight Dollars and Seventy-Six Cents
($8.76) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eleven Dollars and Nine Cents ($11.09). There
shall be a minimum charge of
Eleven Dollars and Nine Cents
($11.09) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(m) The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application
form for the homestead rate and
have final approval on all applications.
Section
535.06
Direct
Service
Water Rates in Summit and Medina
Counties;
Regular
and
Special
Homestead
(a)
Regular
beginning
1/1/01
through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Eighteen Dollars and Thirty-Six
Cents ($18.36).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Thirty-Nine Dollars and Twenty-Two
Cents ($39.22) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(b)
Regular
beginning
1/1/02
through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
shall be Eighteen Dollars and Ninety-Seven Cents ($18.97).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost
Forty Dollars and Fifty-Three Cents
($40.53) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(c)
Regular
beginning
1/1/03
through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each

42
three month billing period shall be
Nineteen Dollars and Sixty Cents
($19.60).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost
Forty-One Dollars and Eighty-Eight
Cents ($41.88) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(d)
Regular
beginning
1/1/04
through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Twenty
Dollars
and
Twenty-Six
Cents ($20.26).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost FortyThree
Dollars
and Twenty-Eight
Cents ($43.28) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(e) Regular beginning 1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Twenty Dollars and Ninety-Three
Cents ($20.93).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost
Forty-Four Dollars and SeventyThree Cents ($44.73) per 1,000 cubic
feet.
(f) Large Industrial Customers.
All water used in excess of 62,500,000
cubic feet during a three month
billing period shall be charged at a
rate of seventy-five percent (75%) of
the rate prescribed in this section
for water used in excess of one thousand (1,000) cubic feet.
(g) Customers supplied from more
than one service district. Customers
with premises supplied with water
from more than one service district
shall be billed at the rate for the
service district from which the predominant quantity of water is supplied.
(h) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/01 through 12/31/01
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Forty-Nine Cents
($10.49). There shall be a minimum
charge of be Ten Dollars and FortyNine Cents ($10.49) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(i) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/02 through 12/31/02
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Sixty-Four Cents
($10.64). There shall be a minimum

The City Record
charge of Ten Dollars and SixtyFour Cents ($10.64) for the first
1,000 cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(j) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/03 through 12/31/03
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Seventy-Nine
Cents ($10.79). There shall be a minimum charge of Ten Dollars and
Seventy-Nine Cents ($10.79) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(k) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/04 through 12/31/04
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Ninety-Four
Cents ($10.94). There shall be a minimum charge of be Ten Dollars and
Ninety-Four Cents ($10.94) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(l) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/05
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Eleven Dollars and Nine Cents
($11.09). There shall be a minimum
charge of Eleven Dollars and Nine
Cents ($11.09) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(m) The Director of Public Utilities
shall prescribe the application form
for the homestead rate and have
final approval on all applications.
Section 3. That existing Sections
535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1743-99, passed June 15, 2000, are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

1978

August 22, 2001
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1552-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation to stretch one banner across
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive north
of Parkgate Ave. on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate
permission)
for
the
period
of
August 30, 2001 to September 10,
2001, inclusive, to publicize their
special annual event; “One World
Day”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the
Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation, of Cleveland, Ohio, to install,
maintain and remove one (1) banner to be hung on Cleveland Public
Power utility poles, (by separate
permission) publicizing their special annual event; “One World Day”,
for the period of August 30, 2001 to
September 10, 2001, inclusive, and
which banners are to be hung at
the following pole locations and on
the following pole numbers: Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive - one (1) pole
North of Parkgate Avenue on the
West side of the street, No pole
number or tag; and one (1) pole
North of Parkgate Avenue on the
East side of the street, No pole
number or tag; and which poles
location
and
banners
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which banners
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banners,
and said banners shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1553-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with Glenville Development Corporation for construction of the Bradley Construction
Company Headquarters and Hardware store through the use of
Ward
8
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Glenville Development Corporation for construction of the Bradley Construction Company Headquarters and Hardware store, and
for the purpose of creating jobs and
employment opportunities in the
City of Cleveland, through the use
of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $65,183 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1554-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation for Reddlo Development
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Glenville Development Corporation for Reddlo Development for
the new construction of a professional building to be located at the
Intersection of East 105th Street
and Hathaway Avenue for the purpose of creating jobs and employment opportunities in the City of
Cleveland,
through
the
use
of
Ward
8
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1555-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation for the Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame through the
use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Glenville Development Corporation for the construction of the
Glenville
Neighborhood
Hall
of
Fame Monument recognizing the
contributions of Glenville residents,
and for the purpose of creating jobs
and employment opportunities in the
City of Cleveland, through the use
of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

1979

43
Ord. No. 1556-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, Local 39.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, Local 39 which contains
the terms set forth in File No. 155601-A, for the period from April 1,
2001 through March 31, 2004, which
provides, among other things, for an
increase in the salaries and wages
for members of the bargaining unit
in accordance with the following
schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1557-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Service Hospital Nursing
Home & Public Employees (Custodial Workers & Bridge Oilers), Local
47.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Service
Hospital Nursing Home & Public
Employees (Custodial Workers &
Bridge Oilers), Local 47 which contains the terms set forth in File No.
1557-01-A, for the period from April
1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:

The City Record

44
Increase
Three percent (3%)

Effective Date
of Increase
April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1558-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with AFSCME, Ohio Council 8,
Local 100.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining
agreement
with
the
AFSCME, Ohio Council 8, Local 100
which contains the terms set forth
in File No. 1558-01-A, for the period
from April 1, 2001 through March 31,
2004, which provides, among other
things, for an increase in the
salaries and wages for members of
the bargaining unit in accordance
with the following schedule:
Increase
Three percent (3%)

Effective Date
of Increase
April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

Ord. No. 1559-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association
of Machinists District Council 54,
Local 439.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists
District Council 54, Local 439 which
contains the terms set forth in File
No. 1559-01-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1560-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Municipal Foreman &
Laborers Union (Supervisory), Local
1099.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union
(Supervisory), Local 1099 which contains the terms set forth in File No.
1560-01-A, for the period from April
1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:

1980

August 22, 2001
Increase
Three percent (3%)

Effective Date
of Increase
April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1561-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with Municipal Foreman & Laborers
Union (Non-Supervisory), Local 1099.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union
(Non-Supervisory), Local 1099 which
contains the terms set forth in File
No. 1561-01-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase
Three percent (3%)

Effective Date
of Increase
April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001

The City Record

45

Ord. No. 1562-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, effective as of April
1, 2001, and repealing existing Ordinance No. 434-01, passed March 20, 2000, as amended.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this ordinance shall be known as the “General Salary Ordinance.” Further, that except as otherwise herein provided, the schedules of compensation set forth in Sections 2 to 50 inclusive, shall be effective as
of April 1, 2001.
Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor, Directors of Departments, Planning Director, Executive Director Community
Relations Board, four Executive Assistants to the Mayor
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $49,078.05 and
not more than $154,315.05 per annum.
(b) That the salary of the the Directors of Law, Finance, Public Utilities, Port Control, Economic Development,
Public Safety, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Service, Public Health, Personnel and Human Resources,
Community Development, Aging, the Planning Director, and the Executive Director of the Community Relations
Board and four (4) Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $49,078.05 and
not more than $148,750.72 per annum.
Section 3. Clerk of Council
That the salary of the Clerk of Council shall be fixed at not less than $41,416.04 and not more than $93,581.41
per annum.
Section 4. Employees of Council-Salary
That the Clerk of Council, with the approval of the President of Council, shall fix the salary of the employees
of Council within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

Administrative Assistant..........................................................
Archivist.........................................................................................
Chief of Consumer Affairs......................................................
Chief Deputy Clerk ..................................................................
Chief Legislative Secretary....................................................
Clerk’s Deputy Assistant.........................................................
Clerk’s Assistant.........................................................................
Councilmanic Assistants (Part-Time).................................
Council Receptionist..................................................................
Deputy Clerk................................................................................
Deputy Clerk – Finance...........................................................
Director of Communications...................................................
Executive Assistant – Administration................................
Executive Assistant – Finance..............................................
Executive Assistant to the Clerk of Council..................
Executive Transition Coordinator........................................
First Assistant Clerk.................................................................
Fiscal Officer................................................................................
Fiscal Secretary...........................................................................
Information Systems Coordinator.........................................
Information Systems Administrator.....................................
Legislative Assistants...............................................................
Legislative Assistant/Administrative Secretary.............
Legislative Secretary.................................................................
Research Assistant.....................................................................
Research Director.......................................................................
Sergeant-at-Arms..........................................................................

Minimum

Maximum

21,112.14
18,630.00
21,851.06
21,851.06
21,851.06
21,851.06
$18.72 per hour
$ 7.16 per hour
18,630.00
21,112.14
21,112.14
24,974.46
24,974.46
24,974.46
24,974.46
41,416.04
24,975.91
$25.85 per hour
24,975.91
21,851.06
21,851.06
18,630.00
18,630.00
18,630.00
21,851.06
21,851.06
13,304.30

67,858.34
67,858.34
74,644.18
67,858.34
67,858.34
67,858.34
$21.30 per hour
$14.02 per hour
40,715.00
67,858.34
67,858.34
76,644.18
81,430.02
81,430.02
81,430.02
86,430.02
67,858.34
$41.81 per hour
64,336.48
74,098.58
81,430.02
54,286.68
64,336.48
54,286.68
81,430.02
81,430.02
37,328.41

Section 5. Secretary of Civil Service Commission, Secretaries to Director, and Executive Assistants to the Mayor
That the salary of the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, the salary of the Secretary to each Director
of a Department, and the salaries of four Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor in
accordance with the following schedule:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Four Executive Assistants to the Mayor..........................
Special Assistant to the Mayor.............................................
Secretary to Directors of Departments..............................
Secretary of the Civil Service Commission......................

Minimum
$35,410.47
20,410.00
36,590.39
25,011.85

Maximum
$125,241.90
79,901.99
105,803.73
74,623.50

Section 6. Department of Law
That the Director of Law shall fix the salary of each member of his staff of lawyers in accordance with the
following schedule:

1981

46

The City Record

August 22, 2001

CIVIL BRANCH
1.
Chief Counsel...............................................................................
2.
Chief Assistant Director of Law..........................................
3.
Assistant Director of Law I...................................................
4.
Assistant Director of Law I(s).............................................
5.
Assistant Director of Law II.................................................
6.
Assistant Director of Law II(s)...........................................

Minimum
$36,750.00
31,500.00
26,250.00
26,250.00
31,500.00
31,500.00

Maximum
$116,992.77
90,878.58
65,671.03
71,224.40
74,126.31
80,831.61

CRIMINAL BRANCH
1.
Chief Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
2.
First Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
3.
Assistant Prosecutor..................................................................

36,750.00
31,500.00
23,100.00

104,435.53
82,232.88
65,274.98

Section 7. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Custodial Worker........................................................................
Window Washer..........................................................................
Bridge Oiler..................................................................................

Minimum
$ 8.34 per hour
$12.54 per hour
$ 8.96 per hour

Maximum
$12.58 per hour
$17.07 per hour
$15.18 per hour

Section 8. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

Accountant I.................................................................................
Accountant II...............................................................................
Accountant III..............................................................................
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
Activities Therapist...................................................................
AIDS Support Services Coordinator.....................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer I.........................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer II.......................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer III.....................................
Air Pollution Engineer.............................................................
Air Pollution Inspector I.........................................................
Air Pollution Inspector II.......................................................
Air Pollution Technician I......................................................
Air Pollution Technician II....................................................
Air Pollution Technician III..................................................
Airport Information Representative....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man....................................................................
Architect.........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Buyer...........................................................................
Assistant City Planner.............................................................
Assistant Civil Engineer..........................................................
Assistant Electrical Engineer................................................
Assistant Mechanical Engineer.............................................
Assistant Plan Examiner.........................................................
Associate Programmer..............................................................
Bacteriologist................................................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Building Inspector......................................................................
Camera Room Operator............................................................
Caseworker I................................................................................
Caseworker II..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter.............................................................................
Chemist...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Civil Engineer..............................................................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clerk Typist..................................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I.........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II.......................................
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I............................................
Cocaine Intake Specialist........................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector I......................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector II....................................................

1982

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$16.68 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$20.28 per hour
$13.51 per hour
$14.60 per hour
$12.84 per hour
$14.37 per hour
$21.44 per hour
$22.60 per hour
$23.81 per hour
$16.74 per hour
$17.25 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$21.44 per hour
$14.01 per hour
$17.32 per hour
$20.39 per hour
$17.72 per hour
$25.22 per hour
$23.58 per hour
$17.50 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$19.60 per hour
$20.28 per hour
$14.01 per hour
$18.60 per hour
$15.92 per hour
$15.21 per hour
$16.68 per hour
$16.68 per hour
$21.86 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$15.92 per hour
$25.22 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$10.44 per hour
$15.92 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$19.60 per hour
$15.14 per hour
$13.63 per hour

$14.08 per hour

$20.29 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$21.44 per hour

$ 6.55
$ 7.27
$ 8.20
$ 5.15
$ 5.46
$ 9.15
$10.49
$ 8.43
$ 8.96
$ 9.50
$12.04
$12.12
$ 7.76
$ 7.12
$ 7.53
$ 8.43
$10.02
$14.14
$17.77
$14.19
$ 9.73
$17.83
$ 6.71
$ 7.12
$ 7.12
$ 7.12
$ 7.12
$13.42
$ 7.55
$ 7.96
$10.02
$14.26
$ 6.04
$ 5.90
$ 6.55
$ 6.36
$ 8.90
$ 7.53
$ 6.04
$ 9.50
$ 7.53
$ 7.62
$ 6.36
$ 7.12
$ 7.37
$ 8.56
$ 9.95

August 22, 2001
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.

The City Record

Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector III...................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating I....................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating II...................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating III.................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration I..............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration II........................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration III......................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Trainee.........................................
Community Development Planner........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I.............................
Community Relations Representative II...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Composing Equipment Operator............................................
Computer Monitor Assistant...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist.............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist.....................................
Cook.................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Cost Construction Estimator...................................................
Customer Service Representative.........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator.......................................................
Dental Assistant ........................................................................
Development Officer..................................................................
Dietician.........................................................................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor..................................................
Electrical Engineer....................................................................
Electronic Engineer...................................................................
Elevator Inspector......................................................................
Engineer.........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I.............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III.......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Environmental Technician......................................................
Family Planning Clerk.............................................................
Financial Analyst.......................................................................
Financial Counselor...................................................................
Fuel System Technician...........................................................
General Health Aide..................................................................
General Storekeeper...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker.....................................................
Head Cook.....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper........................................................................
Health Educator I......................................................................
Health Educator II....................................................................
Heating Inspector.......................................................................
HIV Educator...............................................................................
House Connection Inspector...................................................
Housing Inspector.......................................................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist................................
Human Resources On-the-Job
Training Specialist.................................................................
Human Resources Planner......................................................
Human Resources Special
Projects Coordinator..............................................................
Income Tax Tracer....................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer.................................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector................................................
Information Control Analyst..................................................

1983

47
$15.70 per hour

$22.60 per hour

$14.08 per hour

$20.29 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$21.44 per hour

$15.70 per hour

$22.60 per hour

$14.08 per hour

$20.29 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$21.44 per hour

$15.70 per hour

$22.60 per hour

$ 9.97
$ 9.87
$ 5.15
$ 6.04
$ 7.53
$ 9.51
$ 6.71
$ 8.43
$ 7.53
$12.02
$ 5.73
$ 9.12
$11.38
$ 5.67
$ 8.34
$10.03
$ 5.24
$ 9.92
$ 5.15
$ 8.96
$ 9.08
$ 9.05
$ 9.50
$ 9.54
$14.23
$22.78
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$13.33
$14.18
$15.74
$12.35
$ 7.22
$ 7.12
$ 7.94
$ 9.23
$ 5.15
$ 7.96
$ 7.12
$ 5.46
$ 7.11
$ 6.36
$ 7.12
$14.23
$ 8.17
$12.70
$14.60
$ 9.73

$16.37
$24.26
$13.51
$15.92
$19.24
$23.81
$17.50
$11.57
$19.24
$18.46
$15.21
$20.36
$13.17
$14.60
$18.72
$14.58
$14.02
$12.70
$13.24
$22.59
$16.67
$12.40
$25.22
$25.67
$18.60
$28.71
$18.20
$19.11
$24.87
$18.99
$19.94
$20.95
$18.81
$19.75
$20.73
$15.22
$11.68
$18.29
$19.24
$17.00
$13.51
$20.28
$18.29
$14.57
$18.30
$16.68
$18.29
$18.60
$10.64
$15.55
$16.55
$25.21

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$10.21 per hour
$10.74 per hour

$21.43 per hour
$26.63 per hour

$10.21
$10.04
$ 9.73
$ 6.36
$ 6.81

$21.43
$14.74
$25.21
$16.68
$17.46

per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

48
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.

The City Record
Inspector of Weight and Measures.....................................
Instrument Repairman..............................................................
Instrumentation Technician I................................................
Instrumentation Technician II..............................................
Intake Specialist.........................................................................
Job Retraining Assistant.........................................................
Junior Cashier ..........................................................................
Junior Chemist.............................................................................
Junior City Planner...................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer...............................................................
Junior Clerk..................................................................................
Junior Draftsman........................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide.........................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant.................................................................
Laboratory Helper......................................................................
Landscape Architect...................................................................
Lead Pressman.............................................................................
Life Guard.....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain....................................................................
Mechanical Engineer.................................................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader................................................................................
Minority Business Consultant................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and
Evaluation Coordinator.........................................................
Office Machine Operator..........................................................
Offset Duplicating Machine Operator.................................
On The Job Training Specialist...........................................
Park and Recreation Planner................................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist..................................................
Pharmacist.....................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor I................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor II..............................................................................
Photographer................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician ................................
Photo-Litho Operator..................................................................
Physical Director........................................................................
Plan Examiner.............................................................................
Play Director................................................................................
Police Radio Technician..........................................................
Pressman........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator...................................................
Principal Cashier........................................................................
Principal Clerk............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary........................................................................
Program Analyst.........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk.............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist I..............................................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I.....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV..................................................
Public Information Officer......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst.....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician........................................................................
Receptionist...................................................................................
Records Manager........................................................................
Recreation Aide...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor................................................................

1984

August 22, 2001
$ 5.73
$ 8.21
$16.87
$18.83
$ 5.15
$ 7.12
$ 5.40
$ 5.46
$ 6.36
$ 6.36
$ 9.89
$ 8.45
$ 5.46
$16.82
$ 6.04
$ 5.15
$ 9.50
$ 8.93
$ 8.50
$10.00
$ 9.50
$ 5.15
$12.82
$11.15
$ 5.46

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$15.21
$16.67
$17.91
$19.73
$13.51
$18.29
$14.01
$14.60
$16.68
$16.68
$11.68
$14.32
$14.60
$21.23
$15.92
$12.58
$23.81
$18.55
$13.33
$16.52
$25.21
$12.58
$15.36
$28.06
$15.36

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$13.65
$ 9.89
$ 5.46
$12.71
$ 9.51
$ 6.31
$ 6.32
$13.62
$ 7.00
$10.74

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$18.57
$12.24
$14.60
$17.94
$23.81
$13.51
$13.48
$14.18
$11.31
$26.62

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$ 6.49 per hour

$12.92 per hour

$ 7.57
$ 9.08
$ 6.80
$ 5.48
$ 8.33
$ 8.20
$ 5.68
$16.38
$ 7.89
$13.59
$ 8.89
$ 7.46
$11.93
$10.61
$ 6.71
$16.64
$ 8.96
$ 9.73
$11.37
$12.48
$10.74
$12.88
$10.63
$12.78
$14.35
$15.49
$ 8.78
$ 7.38
$ 8.96
$16.82
$17.33
$16.38
$ 6.06
$ 9.84
$ 5.68
$ 5.15

$15.26
$18.29
$15.92
$14.60
$16.45
$21.76
$11.53
$17.33
$17.95
$18.61
$12.50
$19.60
$16.58
$12.36
$17.50
$25.36
$22.60
$25.21
$28.08
$18.24
$24.27
$28.61
$11.66
$15.57
$17.44
$18.20
$22.59
$19.24
$22.59
$21.23
$17.33
$17.33
$12.88
$13.50
$9.00
$13.51

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

August 22, 2001
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.

The City Record

Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III.........................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor............................................
Redevelopment Advisor............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator....................................................
Refrigeration Inspector............................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker.......................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician...............................
Rehabilitation Advisor..............................................................
Rehabilitation Inspector...........................................................
Sanitarian Aide............................................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs......................
Senior Assistant Architect.......................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner...............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer...........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer..................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer.......................................
Senior Bacteriologist..................................................................
Senior Cashier..............................................................................
Senior Chemist.............................................................................
Senior Clerk..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator.......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist.......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator.........................................
Senior Development Officer....................................................
Senior Draftsman........................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman
and Photographer...................................................................
Senior Information Control Analyst....................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect....................................................
Senior Site Inspector – Demolition......................................
Sewer Service Man.....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless..................................................
Starter (Golf)...............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk...................................................................................
Stenographer I.............................................................................
Stenographer II............................................................................
Stenographer III..........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper....................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector...................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II.............................................................................
Technical Specialist...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer............................................
Telephone Operator....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor................................................................
Timekeeper....................................................................................
Traffic Engineer.........................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician...............................
Typist..............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development
Technician.................................................................................
Utility Adjuster............................................................................
Vector Control Assistant..........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor...................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman..................................................
Water Meter Repairman..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman.............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector................................

49
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 6.83
$ 6.83
$ 7.96
$ 8.38
$14.26
$ 8.40
$ 7.94
$ 6.71
$14.60
$11.62
$ 6.30
$ 9.51
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 6.71
$ 6.55
$ 7.53
$10.29
$ 8.96
$11.34
$10.80
$12.63
$ 9.65

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$14.39
$14.95
$15.82
$14.70
$20.28
$22.60
$18.60
$12.57
$13.51
$17.50
$22.60
$13.11
$14.60
$23.81
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$17.50
$16.68
$19.24
$13.69
$22.60
$23.96
$15.21
$29.64
$16.36

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$ 7.12
$ 7.38
$10.86
$ 9.73
$ 8.43
$14.99
$ 7.53
$13.82
$ 5.15
$ 7.88
$ 9.77
$10.77
$ 7.37
$ 5.46
$ 6.36
$ 6.04
$ 8.96
$10.60
$12.41
$ 7.53
$ 9.08
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 5.46
$ 9.50
$13.68
$ 9.92

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$18.29 per
$19.24 per
$14.88 per
$25.21 per
$21.43 per
$15.90 per
$19.24 per
$18.93 per
$11.19 per
$10.80 per
$12.27 per
$13.69 per
$15.21 per
$15.04 per
$17.13 per
$15.92 per
$22.60 per
$15.48 per
$17.11per
$19.24 per
$20.29 per
$14.01 per
$14.60 per
$14.60 per
$23.81 per
$14.60 per
$12.70 per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$ 5.73
$10.64
$ 8.90
$ 7.38
$14.99
$14.99
$13.58
$ 9.05
$15.67

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$15.21
$13.69
$12.18
$16.56
$15.90
$15.90
$15.90
$13.58
$19.87

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 9. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Guard...............................................................................................
Correctional Officer....................................................................
Institutional Guard ...................................................................

1985

Minimum
$ 6.55 per hour
$12.18 per hour
$12.18 per hour

Maximum
$13.11 per hour
$13.94 per hour
$13.94 per hour

50

The City Record

August 22, 2001

Section 10. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Minimum
$22,882.82
22,885.90
19,409.04
21,266.04

Bilingual Communication Specialist....................................
Police Radio Dispatcher...........................................................
Police Safety Aide......................................................................
Safety Telephone Operator......................................................

Maximum
$31,128.76
34,083.34
24,265.18
26,354.27

Section 11. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Minimum
29,828.64
26,776.62
30,533.44
24,070.17
37,550.06
29,215.14
31,650.11
23,962.24
28,605.94
30,553.44
26,835.06
28,446.57
32,237.05
28,446.55
32,237.05
28,446.57
32,242.61

Assistant Superintendent of Distribution..........................
Chief Meter Reader....................................................................
Chief Radio Dispatcher – Water..........................................
Data Conversion Supervisor....................................................
Engineer of Hydraulic Surveys............................................
Meter Reader Supervisor..........................................................
Sewer Construction Unit Leader...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader Operator........................
Supervisor of Radio Service...................................................
Unit Supervisor............................................................................
Water Hydraulic Unit Leader................................................
Water Hydraulic Supervisor...................................................
Water Meter Department Unit Leader...............................
Water Meter Department Supervisor...................................
Water Pipe Repair Unit Leader...........................................
Water Pipe Repair Supervisor...............................................

Maximum
38,266.51
34,440.26
39,175.14
31,047.29
48,463.15
38,401.35
40,550.03
35,101.15
36,733.62
41,422.00
38,812.73
37,050.41
41,809.36
37,050.41
41,809.36
37,954.39
42,713.34

Section 12. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Building Stationary Engineer................................................
Chief Building Stationary Engineer....................................
Chief Stationary Engineer......................................................
First Assistant Stationary Engineer...................................
Purification Plant Operator I................................................
Purification Plant Operator II...............................................
Purification Plant Operator III ...........................................
Second Assistant Stationary Engineer...............................
Stationary Boiler Room Operator.........................................
Water Plant Operator I............................................................
Water Plant Operator II..........................................................

$10.14
$12.37
$ 9.18
$12.15
$ 9.43
$10.83
$11.36
$10.83
$12.29
$15.70
$17.73

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$16.22 per hour
$17.34 per hour
$18.95 per hour
$17.25 per hour
$13.21 per hour
$15.04 per hour
$15.71 per hour
$16.11 per hour
$16.82 per hour
$17.76 per hour
$19.02 per hour

Section 13. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor................................
Traffic Sign Process Operator...............................................

Minimum
$12.89 per hour
$12.89 per hour

Maximum
$21.10 per hour
$21.10 per hour

Section 14. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Security Officer............................................................................

Minimum
$10.80 per hour

Maximum
$16.74 per hour

Section 15. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Airport Maintenance Man........................................................
Concrete Mixer Driver..............................................................
Dog Warden..................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II................................
Hostler.............................................................................................
Parking Enforcement Officer.................................................
Street Carry-all Driver..............................................................
Street Maintenance Equipment Leader..............................
Street Equipment Maintenance Specialist.........................
Tanker Truck Driver................................................................
Tow Truck Operator ................................................................
Traffic Controller........................................................................
Truck Driver.................................................................................
Waste Collection Driver...........................................................
Waste Collection Roll-Off Driver..........................................

1986

$11.97
$14.82
$11.04
$12.34
$ 9.80
$ 9.74
$15.55
$16.15
$15.55
$15.55
$11.80
$ 9.73
$12.50
$12.33
$15.52

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$15.14 per hour
$18.79 per hour
$13.99 per hour
$15.65 per hour
$12.42 per hour
$12.34 per hour
$19.70 per hour
$20.47 per hour
$19.70 per hour
$19.70 per hour
$14.97 per hour
$12.34 per hour
$15.85 per hour
$15.63 per hour
$20.08 per hour

August 22, 2001

The City Record

51

Section 16. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Machinist........................................................................................
Machinist Unit Leader..............................................................
Machinist Helper.........................................................................

Minimum
$15.83 per hour
$14.28 per hour
$13.72 per hour

Maximum
$18.58 per hour
$21.04 per hour
$15.70 per hour

Section 17. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader.............................................
Auto Body Repair Worker......................................................
Automobile Repair Helper.......................................................
Automobile Repair Worker.....................................................
Automobile Repairman Unit Leader....................................
Blacksmith.....................................................................................
Garage Worker............................................................................
Heavy Duty Mechanic...............................................................
Small Equipment Repair Worker.........................................
Tire Repair Worker...................................................................
Welder.............................................................................................

$12.88
$15.73
$10.13
$12.60
$17.78
$15.79
$12.42
$15.75
$12.26
$14.08
$18.36

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$19.31 per hour
$17.12 per hour
$14.39 per hour
$16.97 per hour
$20.59 per hour
$20.06 per hour
$14.43 per hour
$20.33 per hour
$15.61 per hour
$15.47 per hour
$19.77 per hour

Section 18. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Bridge Attendant.........................................................................
Electric Bridge Operator..........................................................

Minimum
$ 7.82 per hour
$ 9.39 per hour

Maximum
$12.97 per hour
$15.66 per hour

Section 19. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Assistant Chief Electrical Inspector...................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical I.................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical II...............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical III.............................
Electrical Inspector....................................................................

Minimum
$30,822.89

Maximum
$40,987.11

$14.40 per hour

$19.70 per hour

$15.20 per hour

$20.82 per hour

$16.01 per hour
$29,217.91

$21.93 per hour
$38,852.90

Section 20. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Assistant Chief Plumbing Inspector...................................
Assistant Plumbing Inspector................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing I.................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing II...............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing III..............................
Plumbing Inspector....................................................................

Minimum
$30,822.89
$18,839.70

Maximum
$40,987.11
$33,644.18

$14.40 per hour

$19.70 per hour

$15.20 per hour

$20.82 per hour

$16.01 per hour
$29,217.91

$21.93 per hour
$38,852.90

Section 21. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Emergency Medical Dispatcher (Probationary).............
Emergency Medical Dispatcher.............................................
Emergency Medical Technician............................................

Minimum
$ 8.50 per hour
$24,765.24
$26,336.35

Maximum
$ 8.50 per hour
$34,091.62
$39,296.16

Section 22. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Nurse II..........................................................................................
Public Health Nurse..................................................................
Public Health Nurse I...............................................................
Public Health Nurse II.............................................................
Public Health Nurse III...........................................................
Public Health Nurse IV...........................................................
Public Health Nurse V.............................................................
Public Health Nurse VI...........................................................
Supervising Public Health Nurse .......................................

1987

Minimum
$19,049.10
19,049.10
23,146.64
35,887.06
39,098.75
28,151.33
30,653.67
35,658.35
23,647.11

Maximum
$40,499.69
40,499.69
39,432.63
38,083.56
42,031.15
45,869.06
50,426.68
58,284.78
44,203.41

52

The City Record

August 22, 2001

Section 23. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the
appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman...................................................................
Cable Foreman.............................................................................
Cable Splicer.................................................................................
Cable Splicer I.............................................................................
Cable Splicer II...........................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer......................................
Electric Meter Instrument
Specialist and General Tester...........................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice...............................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II......................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman...................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman...........................
Electric Transmission
and Distribution Inspector..................................................
Foreman Low Tension..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice.......................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension................................................
Line Foreman...............................................................................
Line Clearance Man...................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Lineman..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Line Switchman...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice.......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman.............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Electric Switchboard Operator...............................................
Senior Lineman............................................................................
Signal System Powerman........................................................
Telecommunications Technician...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician.......................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman.............................................

$14.78
$14.89
$20.92
$17.46
$18.72
$17.14
$12.62
$17.64
$18.64

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$21.15 per hour
$21.32 per hour
$27.81 per hour
$23.23 per hour
$24.90 per hour
$22.78 per hour
$19.56 per hour
$23.45 per hour
$24.80 per hour

$18.86
$14.55
$20.92
$17.38
$16.18
$17.38
$20.92

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$25.08
$20.85
$27.81
$23.09
$21.53
$23.09
$27.81

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$18.72
$20.55
$17.38
$14.78
$14.86
$19.93
$20.92
$14.62
$12.44
$18.72
$20.06
$20.06
$17.46
$14.37
$18.30
$19.19
$19.19
$19.71
$16.39
$19.71
$19.54
$19.54
$20.69
$20.92
$19.71
$20.92

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$24.90
$27.33
$23.09
$21.15
$19.77
$26.51
$27.81
$20.57
$20.15
$24.90
$26.68
$26.68
$23.23
$20.57
$26.40
$25.52
$25.52
$26.21
$21.79
$26.21
$25.99
$25.99
$27.51
$27.81
$26.21
$27.81

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 24. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Accident and Safety Inspector...............................................
Airport Field Foreman.............................................................
Arborist I.......................................................................................
Arborist II.....................................................................................
Arborist III....................................................................................
Assistant Gardener.....................................................................
Assistant Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry ...........
Assistant Superintendent of Waste Collection...................
Cemetery Foreman.....................................................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man I.............................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man II...........................................
Cemetery Supervisor..................................................................
Chief Engineering and
Construction Inspector..........................................................
Chief Horticulturist....................................................................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Foreman .........................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Worker.............................
Crematory and Mausoleum Operator...................................
District Paving Repair Foreman..........................................
Engineering and Construction Inspector...........................
Gardener.........................................................................................

1988

$16.44
$16.31
$14.33
$16.60
$18.73
$11.24
$20.24
$20.74
$16.32
$12.81
$19.99
$18.74
$20.60
$24.59
$18.85
$14.08
$14.33
$25.58
$15.37
$12.30

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Maximum
$18.44 per hour
$18.31 per hour
$16.33 per hour
$18.60 per hour
$20.73 per hour
$13.24 per hour
$22.24 per hour
$22.74 per hour
$18.32 per hour
$14.81 per hour
$21.99 per hour
$20.74 per hour
$22.60
$26.59
$20.85
$16.08
$16.33
$27.58
$17.37
$14.30

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

August 22, 2001
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.

The City Record

General Construction Foreman..............................................
General Shop Foreman.............................................................
Greenskeeper................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Crew Foreman...................................
Ground Maintenance Foreman...............................................
Ground Maintenance Man........................................................
Horticulturist................................................................................
Horticulturist Maintenance Foreman..................................
Labor Foreman............................................................................
Lead Program Assistant..........................................................
Mechanical Handyman..............................................................
Maintenance Foreman...............................................................
Municipal Service Laborer.......................................................
Parking Coordinator..................................................................
Practical Nurse............................................................................
Radio Operator.............................................................................
Real Estate Maintenance Man..............................................
Set-Up Foreman............................................................................
Shop Foreman...............................................................................
Sidewalk Inspector.....................................................................
Street Cleaning District Foreman........................................
Street Maintenance Foreman..................................................
Street Maintenance General Foreman.................................
Street Permit Supervisor..........................................................
Street Sweeper – Waste Collection......................................
Tire Shredder................................................................................
Transfer Station Attendant.....................................................
Waste Collection Foreman......................................................
Waste Collection Foreman I..................................................
Waste Collection Transfer Foreman...................................
Waste Collector...........................................................................
Waste Collector – Cushman Operator.................................
Watchman......................................................................................
Watchman Supervisor................................................................

53
$25.81
$18.74
$16.96
$13.84
$16.32
$12.81
$23.55
$18.32
$16.31
$13.91
$13.36
$15.60
$12.81
$17.24
$12.75
$14.71
$13.57
$13.58
$16.31
$14.04
$16.31
$16.31
$20.75
$12.78
$12.45
$13.46
$17.24
$16.31
$17.92
$18.59
$12.81
$13.16
$10.76
$13.52

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$27.81
$20.74
$18.96
$15.84
$18.32
$14.81
$25.55
$20.32
$18.31
$15.91
$15.36
$17.60
$14.81
$19.24
$14.75
$16.71
$15.57
$15.58
$18.31
$16.04
$18.31
$18.31
$22.75
$14.78
$14.45
$15.46
$19.24
$18.31
$19.92
$20.59
$14.81
$15.16
$12.76
$15.52

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 25. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Fingerprint Examiner...............................................................
Scientific Examiner....................................................................

Minimum
$22,000.00
$25,000.00

Maximum
$32,168.86
$48,080.85

Section 26. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Budget Analyst............................................................................
Buyer...............................................................................................
Civil Service Examiner I.........................................................
Civil Service Examiner II.......................................................
Civil Service Examiner III.....................................................
Civil Service Examiner IV......................................................
Court Stenographer....................................................................
Docket Clerk.................................................................................
Junior Personnel Assistant.....................................................
Law Librarian..............................................................................
Legal Secretary............................................................................
Office Manager............................................................................
Parking Enforcement Analyst...............................................
Paralegal........................................................................................
Personnel Assistant....................................................................
Private Secretary to Director.................................................
Senior Personnel Assistant.....................................................
Tape Librarian.............................................................................

Minimum
16,760.96
17,705.24
12,983.84
15,344.54
18,885.58
23,606.98
15,344.54
16,043.58
12,983.84
16,524.89
17,189.55
14,700.00
18,385.50
16,043.58
16,524.89
15,344.54
17,705.24
14,164.19

Maximum
44,618.98
40,792.97
34,200.84
36,782.26
42,220.73
52,398.08
34,270.24
30,573.46
33,134.82
33,038.97
34,656.78
32,780.81
37,509.08
36,782.38
38,069.77
40,022.05
42,220.73
35,103.80

Section 27. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Administrative Officer..............................................................
Cable Protection Specialist.....................................................
Case Worker Supervisor...........................................................
Chief Air Pollution Inspector................................................
Chief Caseworker Supervisor.................................................
Chief Clerk....................................................................................
Chief Photographer....................................................................

1989

Minimum
17,705.24
18,529.41
20,065.93
20,065.93
22,426.64
22,050.00
20,065.93

Maximum
44,593.41
32,437.84
38,069.77
43,085.42
38,668.86
40,022.27
43,085.42

54
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

The City Record
Chief Radio Dispatcher............................................................
Chief Telephone Operator........................................................
Cocaine Treatment Supervisor...............................................
Composing Supervisor...............................................................
Consumer Protection Supervisor...........................................
Custodial Worker Supervisor.................................................
Personnel Analyst I...................................................................
Secretary to Board of Examiner
of Plumbers Board of Review (Electrical)..................
Secretary – Boxing and Wrestling Commission................
Superintendent of Maintenance.............................................
Superintendent of Street Cleaning.......................................
Superintendent of Waste Collection....................................
Supervisor of Income Tax Files...........................................
Supervisor of Storeroom and Mailing.................................

August 22, 2001
25,377.50
17,611.99
22,426.64
20,065.93
18,885.58
17,705.24
21,000.00

40,307.86
42,119.39
40,022.27
36,782.38
38,668.86
35,570.37
39,776.98

18,885.58
18,885.58
23,606.98
25,967.68
29,508.73
18,885.58
16,524.89

33,484.82
30,573.46
48,164.67
39,292.74
48,164.67
33,484.82
30,573.46

Section 28. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
14.
14.
15.
16.
18.
18.
19.
20.
21.
23.
24.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

Airport Maintenance Supervisor............................................
Assistant Chief Building Inspector.....................................
Assistant Chief Housing Inspector......................................
Assistant Custodian...................................................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electrical Generation.......
Bridge Inspector..........................................................................
Bureau Manager – Housing....................................................
Bureau Manager – Demolition...............................................
Bureau Manager – Building...................................................
Cable Production Manager......................................................
Chief Bridge Operator...............................................................
Chief of Electric Meter Bureau............................................
Chief Guard...................................................................................
Chief Safety Signal System....................................................
Chief Sidewalk Inspector.........................................................
Chief Street Permit Inspector................................................
Chief of Traffic Signal Unit..................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector Supervisor...................................
Coordinator of Parking Enforcement.................................
Correctional Supervisor.............................................................
District Forester..........................................................................
Electric Bridge Operator Leader..........................................
Environmental Assistant..........................................................
Field Operations Forester........................................................
General Superintendent of Waste Collection...................
House Sergeant............................................................................
Instrumentation Supervisor.....................................................
Parking Meter Foreman...........................................................
Printing Foreman.......................................................................
Supervisor of Landscape Construction...............................
Supervisor of Parking Enforcement Unit.........................
Supervisor of Markets...............................................................
Supervisor of Weights and Measures.................................
Survey Party Chief....................................................................
Tunnel Maintenance Foreman...............................................
Tunnel Maintenance Man........................................................

Minimum
21,019.66
17,705.24
17,705.24
16,559.28
21,019.66
13,958.10
26,797.11
26,797.11
26,797.11
20,410.00
16,559.28
26,274.57
l5,764.74
$18.60 per hour
15,641.78
14,790.48
$18.60 per hour

Maximum
44,593.59
49,440.00
43,084.23
40,791.73
47,744.62
35,103.91
69,147.01
69,147.01
69,147.01
78,335.28
42,219.44
59,598.93
34,910.81
$30.98 per hour
38,672.07
36,782.38
$30.98 per hour

34,464.91
18,627.62
17,543.01
31,043.38
$ 8.55 per hour
17,705.24
32,445.00
30,473.96
13,137.29
29,200.50
24,679.38
28,404.92
17,078.47
18,262.21
14,790.48
14,790.48
18,099.87
17,078.47
15,764.72

47,858.90
44,071.82
43,085.42
49,108.56
$15.27 per hour
43,085.42
50,963.57
53,673.35
30,839.68
44,806.85
34,702.94
43,847.13
39,292.74
34,229.51
38,069.77
36,782.38
47,408.08
32,146.98
29,351.17

Section 29. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Airport Safety Supervisor........................................................

Minimum
38,762.61

Maximum
43,862.84

Section 30. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Accountant IV..............................................................................
Airport Operations Agent III.................................................
Assistant Bureau Chief-Demolition......................................
Assistant Financial Systems Coordinator..........................
Assistant Personnel Administrator......................................
Budget and Management Analyst........................................
Chief Dog Warden......................................................................
Labor Relations Assistant.......................................................

1990

Minimum
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62

Maximum
45,367.94
46,955.82
45,367.94
45,367.94
46,955.82
46,955.82
57,260.51
45,367.94

August 22, 2001
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

The City Record

Rehabilitation Supervisor........................................................
Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance................................
Supervisor of Architectural Construction..........................
Supervisor of Personnel Records..........................................
Supervisor of Site Development............................................
Supervisor of Vital Statistics.................................................
Systems Analyst..........................................................................
Water Plant Shift Supervisor ...............................................
Water Plant Shift Supervisor – Parma Control .................
Water System Construction Inspector Supervisor..............

55
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
$8.96 per hour
$8.96 per hour
18,627.62

45,367.94
45,367.94
46,975.00
45,367.94
45,367.94
46,955.82
45,367.94
$22.58 per hour
$22.58 per hour
46,955.82

Section 31. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Airport Maintenance Superintendent...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer..............................
Assistant Director of Public Health Nurses....................
Assistant Income Tax Financial Supervisor....................
Assistant Manager of Audit
Control and Personnel..........................................................
Assistant Manager of Recreation.........................................
Assistant Superintendent of Pumping................................
Assistant Superintendent of Purification..........................
Auditor............................................................................................
Chief Alcoholism Coordinating Service..............................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau...........................................
Chief Plan Examiner................................................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of
Recreation-Fiscal Control.....................................................
Deputy Project Director...........................................................
District Supervisor - Environmental Health....................
Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor......................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................
Office of Professional Standards
Investigative Auditor............................................................
Office of Professional Standards
Research/Analyst....................................................................
Project Program Director of Consumer Affairs.............
Recreation Center Manager....................................................
Superintendent of Light Equipment Maintenance .............
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative Services ..........
Supervisor Administrative
Services-Data Processing Center.......................................
Supervisor of Milk Program...................................................
Supervisor of Vector Control..................................................
Welfare Liaison...........................................................................

Minimum
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

Maximum
49,523.33
60,391.48
47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

49,523.33
47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63
49,523.33
47,848.63
47,848.63
49,523.33
49,523.33

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

60,391.48
52,888.99
47,848.63
49,523.33
47,848.63

19,784.74

47,848.63

19,784.74
19,784.74
32,500.00
19,784.74
19,784.74

47,848.63
47,848.63
60,391.48
47,848.63
47,848.63

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63

Section 32. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Air Pollution Control, Engineer IV.....................................
Airport Safety Shift Commander..........................................
Assistant Administrator............................................................
Assistant Health Center Director.........................................
Assistant Manager of Marketing..........................................
Central Payroll Supervisor......................................................
Chief Building Inspector..........................................................
Chief Electrical Inspector.......................................................
Chief Elevator Inspector..........................................................
Chief Environmental Health-Engineering.........................
Chief Heating Inspector...........................................................
Chief Housing Inspector..........................................................
Chief Plumbing Inspector........................................................
Chief Rehabilitation Supervisor............................................
Contract Supervisor – Division of Purchases
and Supplies..............................................................................
Data Processing Supervisor....................................................
Human Resources Contract Administrator.......................
Manager of Public Utilities
Building Maintenance...........................................................
Senior Systems Analyst............................................................
Shift Supervisor Operations....................................................

1991

Minimum
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

Maximum
50,626.16
50,626.16
52,398.08
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
53,560.00
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
52,398.08
50,626.16
52,398.08

20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

50,626.16
50,626.16
67,572.45

20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

62,374.56
52,398.08
50,626.16

56
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

The City Record
Superintendent of Distribution..............................................
Superintendent of Pumping....................................................
Superintendent of Purification..............................................
Supervising Tax Auditor.........................................................
Supervisor of Civil Service Records....................................

August 22, 2001
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16

Section 33. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Airport Operations Superintendent.......................................
Airport Security Coordinator..................................................
Assistant Airport Safety Chief/ Training Officer.........
Assistant Chief of Pumping...................................................
Assistant Chief of Purification.............................................
Assistant Manager of Box Office.........................................
Assistant Manager-Human
Resources Planning and Management...........................
Assistant Manager of Stage...................................................
Chief of Bureau of Accounts and Collections.................
Chief of Bureau of Industrial Air Pollution...................
Chief of Bureau of Smoke Abatement...............................
Chief Engineer-Traffic..............................................................
Chief Senior Electric Switchboard Operator....................
Chief of Tax Auditing Bureau..............................................
Chief of Tax Records Bureau...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies.........
Grants Administrator.................................................................
Health Center Director.............................................................
Human Resources Fiscal Administrator............................
Income Tax Financial Supervisor........................................
Manager of Assigned Maintenance......................................
Manager of Parks and Recreation
Research and Planning........................................................
Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry.............................
Manager of Shops and Field Equipment..........................
Manager of Site Development................................................
Project Director...........................................................................
Programming Supervisor..........................................................
Superintendent of Sidewalks..................................................
Superintendent of Water Plant Maintenance...................
Warehouse Inventory Manager.............................................

Minimum
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40

Maximum
55,412.00
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
57,074.36

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
62,374.56
55,412.00
55,412.00
53,538.16
62,374.56
62,374.56
62,374.56
53,538.16
53,538.16
62,374.56

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

62,374.56
62,374.56
62,374.56
62,374.56
67,572.45
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
67,572.45

Section 34. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Accountant Supervisor..............................................................
Assistant Chief of Water Distribution...............................
Assistant Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses...................................................
Assistant Commissioner, Division
of Printing and Reproduction............................................
Assistant Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.....................................
Building Manager.......................................................................
Chief Architect.............................................................................
Chief Auditor – Utilities..........................................................
Chief City Planner.....................................................................
Chief, Computer Operations....................................................
Chief Engineer – Civil.............................................................
Chief Engineer – Mechanical.................................................
Chief Legal Investigator – Civil Branch..........................
Chief of Street Lighting and Electrical Services ..............
Chief of Laboratories................................................................
Chief of Purification.................................................................
Chief Surveyor.............................................................................
Convention Manager..................................................................
Financial Systems Coordinator..............................................
Fiscal Manager............................................................................
Investment Manager..................................................................
Manager of Enterprise Unit...................................................
Manager of Events.....................................................................
Manager of General Maintenance........................................
Manager of Markets..................................................................
Manager of Parking..................................................................

1992

Minimum
23,647.11
23,647.11

Maximum
56,409.20
58,383.52

23,647.11

56,409.20

23,647.11

71,196.07

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

71,196.07
65,719.45
71,196.07
71,196.07
58,383.52
71,196.07
71,196.07
71,196.07
56,409.20
58,383.52
56,409.20
58,383.52
56,409.20
65,719.45
56,409.20
71,196.07
71,196.07
65,719.45
65,719.45
65,719.45
65,719.45
65,719.45

August 22, 2001
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

The City Record

Manager of Production Power Generation.......................
Manager of Recreation.............................................................
Purchasing Supervisor – Division
of Purchases and Supplies..................................................
Secretary to the Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals...........................................................
Secretary to the Board of Zoning Appeals......................
Security Manager – Convention Center..............................
Senior Internal Auditor............................................................
Senior Programmer Analyst...................................................
Supervisor of Food and Drug Administration.................
Supervisor – Information Control.........................................
Theatrical Manager....................................................................
Water Plant Manager...............................................................

57
23,647.11
40,000.00

65,719.45
65,719.45

23,647.11

56,409.20

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

56,409.20
56,409.20
65,719.45
56,409.20
58,383.52
56,409.20
56,409.20
56,409.20
71,196.07

Section 35. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Airport Maintenance Manager...............................................
Airport Operations Manager...................................................
Airport Safety Chief..................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Administrative Services........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Building and Housing...........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Cleveland
Public Power............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles Maintenance...............................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Neighborhood Development.................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Neighborhood Revitalization...............................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Neighborhood Services..........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Streets.......................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Waste Collection and Disposal..........................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Water Pollution Control.......................................................
Assistant Director of Community
Relations Board.......................................................................
Assistant Income Tax Administrator..................................
Assistant Superintendent of
Electric Transmission and Distribution.........................
Chief of Air Pollution Enforcement....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Engineering....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Information Systems....................
Chief of Air Pollution Monitoring.......................................
Chief Civil Service Examiner................................................
Chief of Pharmacy Services...................................................
Chief of Pumping.......................................................................
Chief of Water Distribution...................................................
Chief Training Officer..............................................................
City Hall Custodian...................................................................
Community Development Executive Assistant................
Contract Compliance Officer...................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Accounts......................................
Deputy Commissioner of
Air Pollution Control.............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Airports........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention
Center and Stadium...............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention
Center and Stadium/West Side Market.........................
Deputy Commissioner of Maintenance...............................
Deputy Commissioner of
Parks and Urban Forestry..................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Urban
Forestry/Golf Courses and Cemeteries..........................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation...................................
Director of Public Health Nurses.........................................
Fair Housing Administrator...................................................
General Manager of Administrative Services..................

1993

Minimum
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

Maximum
75,220.35
75,220.35
75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96
26,273.96

75,220.35
75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96
26,273.96

75,220.35
61,683.57

26,273.96
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

61,683.57
67,572.45
67,572.45
67,572.45
67,572.45
59,597.65
75,220.35
59,597.65
61,683.57
59,597.65
59,597.65
75,220.35
59,597.65
69,434.16

26,273.96
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16

26,273.96

69,434.16

26,273.96
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16

26,273.96

69,434.16

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
31,500.00
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16
69,434.16
74,126.31
75,220.35

58
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

The City Record
Office of Professional Standards Administrator.............
Manager of Human Resources
Program Planning and Management..............................
Personnel Administrator..........................................................
Senior Budget and Management Analyst..........................
Superintendent of Industrial Claims...................................
Superintendent of Motorized Equipment...........................
Utilities Comptroller..................................................................

August 22, 2001
26,273.96

59,597.65

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16
65,875.66
59,597.65
59,597.65
75,220.35

Section 36. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission........
Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation.......................
Chief-Systems Analysis.............................................................
Consulting Engineer..................................................................
Harbor Manager..........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Architecture..........................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications...............
Manager of Education and Research.................................
Manager of Employee Accident Control............................
Manager of Employee Relations..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Manager of Recruitment..........................................................
Minority Business Development Administrator...............
Project Coordinator....................................................................
Risk Manager...............................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations..............

Minimum
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
36,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

Maximum
82,334.04
82,334.04
65,233.88
82,334.04
79,953.75
82,334.04
65,233.88
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
65,233.88
76,000.64
82,334.04
65,233.88

Section 37. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Administrator of Engineering and Planning...................
Airport Chief Engineer.............................................................
Airport Planning Environmental Officer...........................
Air Trade Development Manager.........................................
Assistant Director of Human
Resources and Economic Development..........................
Budget Administrator................................................................
Chief of Personnel Management...........................................
Comptroller-Airports...................................................................
Data Base Analyst.....................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Building and Housing............
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport...........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks,
Maintenance and Properties...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water............................................
Deputy Commissioner of
Water Pollution Control.......................................................
Executive Commissioner for Administration
of Department of Finance...................................................
Executive Commissioner of
Parks and Urban Forestry..................................................
Field Manager..............................................................................
Hardware Analyst......................................................................
Labor Relations Manager........................................................
Manager of Electric System Operation..............................
Manager of Human Resources
Monitoring and Evaluation.................................................
Manager of Marketing..............................................................
Manager of Properties..............................................................
Manager of Public Service Operations...............................
Manager of Telecommunications..........................................
Permit Review Manager..........................................................
Project Leader/Applications...................................................
Software Analyst.........................................................................
Superintendent of Electric
Transmission and Distribution..........................................

1994

Minimum
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

Maximum
94,711.57
94,711.57
75,040.70
87,426.05

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

94,711.57
87,426.05
87,426.05
94,711.57
75,040.70
87,426.05

30,214.95

87,426.05

30,214.95
30,214.95

87,426.05
87,426.05

30,214.95

87,426.05

30,214.95

87,426.05

30,214.95
35,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

87,426.05
50,032.25
87,426.05
94,711.57
87,426.05

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
35,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95

87,426.05
87,426.05
87,426.05
87,426.05
87,426.05
55,168.09
75,040.70
75,040.70

30,214.95

75,040.70

August 22, 2001
30.
31.
32.
33.

The City Record

Supervisor of Computer Operations.....................................
Supervisor Hardware Evaluation.........................................
Telecommunications Analyst..................................................
Veterinarian in Charge
of Spay and Neuter Clinic...................................................

59
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

75,040.70
75,040.70
75,040.70

30,214.95

75,040.70

Section 38. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

City Comptroller..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Commissioner of Accounts......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative
Services – Community Development................................
Commissioner of Architecture................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Building and Housing............................
Commissioner of Burke Airport............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport...........................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power........................
Commissioner of Convention Center....................................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services...............
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections..............................
Commissioner of Information Systems Services.............
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Revitalization................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties.....
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies.........................
Commissioner of Recreation...................................................
Commissioner of Research/
Planning and Development.................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and Parking ........
Commissioner of Utilities Engineering..............................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control........................
Income Tax Administrator......................................................
Manager of Internal Audit.....................................................

Minimum
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52

Maximum
116,035.06
107,109.29
111,153.61

38,951.52
41,312.22
38,951.52
43,672.91
38,951.52

111,153.61
124,285.10
102,603.34
123,357.18
102,603.34

41,312.22
43,672.91
43,672.91
41,312.22
43,672.91
41,312.22
43,672.91
38,951.52
50,951.52
38,951.52
38,951.52
41,312.22
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52
38,951.52
43,672.91
41,312.22
41,312.22

124,285.10
123,357.18
113,868.17
116,035.06
123,357.18
116,035.06
123,357.18
102,603.34
123,357.18
111,153.61
102,603.34
107,109.29
107,109.29
124,285.10
111,153.61
111,153.61
123,357.18
107,109.20
124,285.10

38,951.52
38,951.52
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52
38,951.52
43,672.91
38,951.52
41,312.22
38,951.52

111,153.61
111,153.61
107,109.29
102,603.34
102,603.34
111,153.61
123,357.18
111,153.61
116,035.06
102,603.34

Section 39. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Assistant Manager – Applications
Development and Technical Support...............................
Assistant Manager – Data Processing Operations ............
Assistant to Manager of Planning......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power............

Minimum

Maximum

46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91

105,065.57
96,983.62
96,983.62
96,983.62

Section 40. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Data Base
Supervisor
Supervisor
Supervisor

Administrator.........................................................
Applications Development.................................
Software Support..................................................
Quality Assurance................................................

Minimum
39,937.34
39,937.34
39,937.34
39,937.34

Maximum
92,409.52
73,216.78
73,216.78
73,216.78

Section 41. That the appointing authority shall fix the salary of the Manager, Data Processing Center, at not
less than $50,540.00 per annum and not more than $108,501.60 per annum. Moreover, not more than one person shall
be appointed to such classification.

1995

The City Record

60

August 22, 2001

Section 42. Part-Time/Seasonal Group
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Box Office Cashier.....................................................................
Chaplain..........................................................................................
Checker...........................................................................................
Conservation Aide.......................................................................
Dentist.............................................................................................
Head Usher....................................................................................
Medical Examiner.......................................................................
Organ Tuner.................................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide............................................................
Ranger.............................................................................................
School Crossing Guard..............................................................
Section Supervisor.......................................................................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator..........................................
Stage Hand....................................................................................
Stage Hand Casual.....................................................................
Stage Hand - Show Rate.........................................................
Student Aide.................................................................................
Student Assistant........................................................................
Usher................................................................................................
Usher Captain...............................................................................

$10.33
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$13.38
$ 8.20
$21.40
$ 9.63
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$2 5 . 0 0
$ 8.20
$10.40
$18.55
$20.00
$63.00
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$ 8.20

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per day
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per show
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$13.97 per hour
$11.04 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$27.48 per hour
$10.91 per hour
$56.36 per hour
$24.11 per hour
$ 8.25 per hour
$10.77 per hour
$25.00 per day
$ 8.20 per hour
$13.56 per hour
$24.66 per hour
$24.35 per hour
$81.02 per show
$ 8.33 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour

Section 43. Hourly Rate — Crafts
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

Asbestos Worker
Asphalt Construction Foreman
Asphalt Raker
Asphalt Tamper
Boiler Maker
Bricklayer
Bricklayer Foreman
Bricklayer Helper
Carpenter
Carpenter Foreman
Carpenter Apprentice
Cement Finisher
Cement Finisher Foreman
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group A
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group B
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group C
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group D
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group E
Construction Equipment
Operator – Oiler – Group F
Curb Cutter
Electrical Worker
Electrical Worker Foreman
Glazier
Ironworker
Ironworker Foreman
Jackhammer Operator
Master Mechanic
Overhead Floodlight Maintenance Man
Painter
Painter – Apprentice
Painter Foreman
Paver
Paving Foreman
Pipefitter (Welder)
Pipefitter Foreman
Plasterer

1996

Effective
Date

Minimum

Maximum

5-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-00
5-1-00
1-1-01
7-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01

$30.18
20.10
19.27
19.27
30.56
31.68
26.32
27.57
19.79
26.05
27.30
8.20
26.46
27.71

$37.73
30.15
28.91
28.91
38.20
39.60
32.90
33.90
29.69
32.56
33.81
16.43
33.08
34.08

5-1-01

27.42

31.03

5-1-01

27.27

30.88

5-1-01

26.22

29.83

5-1-01

25.44

29.05

5-1-01

25.12

28.73

5-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
8-1-01
8-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
6-1-01
5-1-01
6-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01

18.54
19.70
30.96
32.21
26.08
30.22
31.47
19.27
27.92
21.19
25.54
8.20
26.79
19.54
20.10
31.42
32.67
26.14

22.15
29.55
38.70
39.70
32.60
37.78
38.78
28.91
31.53
26.49
31.93
14.89
32.93
29.31
30.15
39.28
40.28
32.67

August 22, 2001
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

The City Record

Plasterer Foreman
Plumber (Welder)
Plumber Foreman
Roofer
Sheet Metal Worker
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman
Sign Painter
Sign Painter Unit Leader
Spray Painter
Superintendent of Construction Equipment

61
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
4-1-00
4-1-00
4-1-00
5-1-00

26.52
31.10
32.35
26.70
29.62
30.87
22.55
23.55
20.22
20.10

32.84
38.87
39.87
33.37
37.02
38.02
26.51
27.51
24.16
30.15

Section 44. Municipal Court Employees
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.

Associate Director.......................................................................
Bailiff..............................................................................................
Chief Deputy Bailiff..................................................................
Chief Magistrate..........................................................................
Chief Probation Officer............................................................
Clinical Director..........................................................................
Deputy Bailiff..............................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Administrative Assistant – Finance .........
Deputy Bailiff Administrative
Assistant – Operations..........................................................
Deputy Bailiff Assistant
Director of Data Processing...............................................
Deputy Bailiff Assistant
Jury Commissioner.................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Central Scheduling Director.....................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Court Reporter..................................
Deputy Bailiff Clerk Typist...................................................
Deputy Bailiff – Court Administrator................................
Deputy Bailiff – Court Reporter...........................................
Deputy Bailiff Data Processor..............................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Court Administrator....................
Deputy Bailiff/Deputy Court Administrator
Chief Information Officer....................................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Chief Court Reporter..................
Deputy Bailiff Director of Data Processing....................
Deputy Bailiff Finance Officer.............................................
Deputy Bailiff General.............................................................
Deputy Bailiff Jury Commissioner......................................
Deputy Bailiff Law Clerk.......................................................
Deputy Chief Magistrate..........................................................
Deputy Bailiff – Office Manager..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Private Secretary..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Public Information Officer.......................
Deputy Bailiff Scheduler I......................................................
Deputy Bailiff Session Room Supervisor...........................
Deputy Bailiff – Special Projects Officer.........................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor........................................................
Deputy Bailiff Systems Analyst...........................................
Deputy Bailiff Training Officer............................................
Deputy Chief Probation Officer............................................
Immobilization Officer..............................................................
Magistrate......................................................................................
Municipal Court Psychologist................................................
Personal Bailiff...........................................................................
Probation Officer General.......................................................
Probation Officer Supervisor..................................................
Psychiatric Case Worker.........................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Small Claims Magistrate..........................................................
Student Aide.................................................................................
Traffic Court Magistrate.........................................................

$18.47

$15.60
$47.74

$60.00
$5.15

Minimum
37,783.00
36,085.00
37,569.00
48,620.00
50,395.00
37,783.00
21,424.00
39,173.00

Maximum
68,085.41
61,110.54
69,929.78
75,514.64
75,514.64
68,085.41
47,610.00
58,208.40

39,173.00

58,208.40

22,223.00

54,901.58

21,907.00
41,755.17
41,755.00
19,526.00
62,624.00
22,914.00
21,100.00
45,486.00

49,943.93
69,955.65
65,789.78
29,249.10
84,870.00
50,936.49
47,145.29
72,953.01

45,486.00
22,923.00
58,349.00
39,173.00
21,424.00
37,783.00
21,250.00
40,752.00
39,827.00
20,112.00
per hour
22,284.00
22,284.00
30,000.00
41,368.00
35,000.00
31,000.00
42,318.00
per hour
40,752.00
per hour
43,285.00
28,585.00
48,616.00
21,681.00
21,907.00
per hour
20,687.00
per hour
40,752.00

84,870.00
52,450.70
87,870.00
58,208.40
50,715.00
59,875.79
44,519.49
66,794.76
69,641.01
31,629.60
per hour
44,752.37
49,957.38
58,995.00
61,110.54
56,925,00
58,995.00
67,409.55
per hour
66,794.76
per hour
60,030.00
51,139.35
67,908.42
51,139.35
50,978.93
per hour
50,223.38
per hour
65,944.00

$34.74

$24.69
$93.15

$86.94
$8.80

Section 45. Division of Police; Chief of Police and Deputy Chief of Police
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Rank
Chief of Police.............................................................................
Deputy Chief of Police.............................................................

1997

Minimum
$69,682.20
63,966.00

Maximum
$143,720.49
121,083.26

62

The City Record

August 22, 2001

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 171.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Chief of Police shall not be entitled to receive any overtime compensation while serving as Chief
of Police.
Section 46. Division of Police; Supervisory Ranks
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Rank
Commander of Police................................................................
Deputy Inspector.........................................................................
Captain............................................................................................
Lieutenant......................................................................................
Sergeant..........................................................................................

Minimum
$78,432.29
78,432.29
67,544.32
58,159.12
50,068.17

Maximum
$78,932.29
78,932.29
68,044.32
58,659.12
50,568.17

Section 47. Division of Police; Patrol Officers
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the ranks of patrol officer shall be fixed by the appointing authority
within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Patrol Officer I............................................................................
Patrol Officer II..........................................................................
Patrol Officer III........................................................................
Patrol Officer IV.........................................................................
Trainee............................................................................................

Minimum
$43,093.84
39,379.83
38,879.83
37,879.83
$8.50 per hour

Maximum
$43,593.84
39,379.83
38,879.83
37,879.83
$8.50 per hour

Section 48. Division of Police; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be
fixed by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Junior Assistant Secretary of Police..................................
Surgeon of Police........................................................................
Superintendent of Criminalistics...........................................
Superintendent of Safety Buildings.....................................

Minimum
$26,213.25
43,107.75
30,086.70
30,086.70

Maximum
$50,183.80
67,569.79
61,297.84
59,224.97

Section 49. Division of Fire; Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Fire Chief ....................................................................................
Assistant Fire Chief ................................................................

Minimum
$64,407.00
56,790.30

Maximum
$143,720.49
107,788.95

Section 50. Division of Fire; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Battalion Chief.............................................................................
Captain............................................................................................
Lieutenant......................................................................................
Firefighter
Journeyman...................................................................................
Apprentice – Medic III.........................................................
Apprentice – Medic II...........................................................
Apprentice – Medic I.............................................................
Trainee........................................................................................

Minimum
$67,545.44
58,159.87
50,068.85

Maximum
$68,045.44
58,659.87
50,568.85

43,093.84
39,379.83
38,879.83
37,879.83
$ 8.50 per hour

43,593.84
39,379.83
38,879.83
37,879.83
$ 8.50 per hour

Section 51. That existing Ordinance No. 434-2000, passed March 20, 2000, as from time to time amended, be and
the same is hereby repealed, effective April 1, 2001.
Section 52. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

1998

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1563-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Brothers Printing Company for business cards and note pads for the
Clerk of Council on behalf of the
City Council for a period of two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for business cards and note pads for
a period of two years to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1564-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Cleveland Letter Service for ward
mailing services for the Clerk of
Council on behalf of the City Council for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance

The City Record
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for ward mailing services for a period of two years to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1565-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Legal News Publishing Company for
the printing services for ward mailings for the Clerk of Council on
behalf of the City Council for a
period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for printing services for ward mailings for a period of two years to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified

1999

63
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1566-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Orange Blossom Press for expedited
printing services for the Clerk of
Council on behalf of the City Council for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for expedited printing services for a
period of two years to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

64
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1567-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Orange Blossom Press for letterhead
and envelopes for the Clerk of Council on behalf of the City Council for
a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for letterhead and envelopes for a
period of two years to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1568-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 3 of Ordinance No. 50301, passed June 19, 2001, relating to
constructing
the
North
Shore
Collinwood Town Center at the triangle of East 174th Street and
Lakeshore Boulevard.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 503-01, passed June 19,
2001, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 3. That an amount not to
exceed Eighty-six Thousand Dollars
($86,000) for said improvement shall
be paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166,
Request No. 5092.
Section 2. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 503-01, passed June 19,
2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1569-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 623.091 thereof, relating
to vandalism of memorials for the
safety forces.
Whereas, this Council recognizes
and honors the tremendous sacrifice
made by police officers and firefighters who have died in the line
of duty while safeguarding the citizens of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that it is fitting that those police
officers, firefighters, and their families should be honored and remembered by the erection and maintenance of memorials; and
Whereas, this Council is appalled
that individuals have chosen to
deface and damage the memorials to
the safety forces through such reckless and thoughtless acts as using
the police officer memorial as recreational equipment for skate boarding, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 623.091 to read as follows:
Section
623.091
Vandalism
to
Police and Firefighter Memorials
(a) No person shall purposely
mar, injure, deface, damage or otherwise
physically
mistreat
the
Police
Memorial
or
Firefighter
Memorial.
(b) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of desecration, a misdemeanor of the second degree.

2000

August 22, 2001
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1570-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron
and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 103.13 and 103.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1177-01, passed June 11, 2001, relating to the boundaries of Wards 13
and 14 of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 103.13 and
103.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1177-01, passed June
11, 2001, are hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:
Section 103.13 Ward Thirteen
The boundaries of Ward 13 shall
be as follows:
Beginning in the center line of the
Cuyahoga River at its entrance to
Lake
Erie;
thence
southeasterly
along the center line of the Cuyahoga River to its intersection with
the center line of the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel; thence southwesterly,
westerly,
southwesterly
and westerly along the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel to its intersection
with the center line of the northerly prolongation of the center line of
West 45th Street; thence southerly
along the northerly prolongation
and the center line of West 45th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Franklin Boulevard,
N.W,; thence southwesterly along
the center line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Wales Court, N.W.; thence easterly
along the center line of Wales
Court, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 46th Place;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 46th Place to its intersection with the center line of Taylor Court, N.W.; thence westerly
along the center line of Taylor
Court, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lorain Avenue; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 25th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of

August 22, 2001
Bridge Avenue, N.W.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Bridge Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
22nd Street; thence southeasterly
along the center line of West 22nd
Street and its prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
the RTA main line tracks; thence
northerly along the center line of
the RTA main line tracks and
bridge to its intersection with the
center line of Franklin Avenue,
N.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Franklin Avenue, N.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Columbus Road, N.W.; thence
northerly along the center line of
Columbus Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
RTA bridge; thence northerly along
the center line of the RTA bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River easterly, northeasterly, northwesterly, easterly, southeasterly and southwesterly to its
intersection with the center line of
the Hope Memorial Bridge; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the Hope Memorial Bridge to its
intersection with the northeasterly
right of way line of the former Erie
Railroad;
thence
northwesterly
along the northeasterly line of the
right of way of the former Erie
Railroad to its intersection with the
center
line
of
Columbus
Road;
thence southerly along the center
line of Columbus Road to its intersection with the center line of Moore
Avenue; thence easterly along the
center line of Moore Avenue to its
intersection with the center line of
West 20 Street; thence southwesterly along the center line of West 20
Street to its intersection with the
center line of
the Hope Memorial
Bridge and the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 21st Place;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 21st Place to its intersection with the center line of
Abbey Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Abbey
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
West 20th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 20th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Freeman Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Freeman Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 19th Street; thence southerly, westerly and southerly along the
center line of West 19th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Willey Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly and easterly along the center line of Willey Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Scranton Road, S.W.; thence continuing easterly along the center
line of Kenilworth Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 71; thence southwesterly, southeasterly and southwesterly along the center line of Interstate
71 to its intersection with the center line of Jennings Road, S.W.;
thence in a general southeasterly
and southerly direction along the
center line of Jennings Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of Belt Line Street, S.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Belt Line Street to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad; thence

The City Record
northeasterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad to its intersection with the
center line of the Cuyahoga River;
thence along the meandering center
line of the Cuyahoga River in a
northerly and northeasterly direction to its intersection with the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad, thence southerly
along the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Campbell Road, S.E.; thence easterly, northeasterly and easterly along
the center line of Campbell Road,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Independence Road, S.E.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Independence Road, S.E.
to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly line of sublot number 57 in
the Caroline Beyerle’s Subdivision of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot Number 286 and 287 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps,
Page
44
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence southwesterly along
the northeasterly prolongation and
the northwesterly line of sublot
number 57 to the most westerly corner of sublot number 57; thence
southeasterly along the southwesterly line of sublot numbers 57, 56,
55, 54, 53, 52, 51 and its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of Reeves Road,
S.E. (now vacated); thence southwesterly along the center line of
Reeves Road, S.E. (now vacated) to
its intersection with the center line
of Beyerle Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Beyerle Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Beyerle
Place, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Beyerle
Place, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Independence
Road,
S.E.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of Independence Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 47th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 47th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Chard Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Chard
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Interstate 77;
thence northerly along the center
line of Interstate 77 to its intersection with the center line of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer
to its intersection with the center
line of the Cuyahoga River; thence
northwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along the meandering center line of the Cuyahoga River to its
intersection with the center line of
West 3rd Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of West
3rd Street to its intersection with
the center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge;
thence
northeasterly
along the center line of the Hope
Memorial Bridge and the center line
of Carnegie Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
9th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 9th Street to
its intersection with the northwesterly right of way line of the Inner
Belt Freeway; thence northeasterly
along the northwesterly right of
way line of the Inner Belt Freeway
to its intersection with the center
line of East 13th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 13th Street to its intersection with the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly

2001

65
along the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 14th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of East 14th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Huntington Court, S.E. (now vacated); thence northeasterly along the
center line of Huntington Court, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 18th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 18th Street to its intersection with the center line of Euclid
Avenue; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Euclid Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of the Inner Belt Freeway; thence
northerly along the center line of
the Inner Belt Freeway to its intersection with the center line of
Chester Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Chester Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
40th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 40th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Payne Avenue, N.E,; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Payne Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
45th Street; thence northwesterly
along the center line of East 45th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Superior Avenue, N.E.;
thence northeasterly and easterly
along the center line of Superior
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Norwood Road,
N.E.; thence northerly along the center line of Norwood Road, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Bonna Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Bonna Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Addison
Road, N.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Addison
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Bliss Avenue, N.E.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 66th Street; thence southeasterly along the center line of East
66th Street to its intersection with
the center line of Bliss Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
68th Street; thence northwesterly
along the center line of East 68th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of St. Clair Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of St. Clair Avenue, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of
Addison
Road,
N.E.;
thence
northerly along the center line of
Addison Road, N.E. and its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the CSX Railroad; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the CSX
Railroad to its intersection with the
center line of East 55th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of
East 55th Street and its
northerly prolongation to its intersection with the shore line of Lake
Erie; thence in a general southwesterly direction along the irregular shore line of Lake Erie to its
intersection with the entrance to the
Cuyahoga River and the place of
beginning.
Section 103.14 Ward Fourteen
The boundaries of Ward 14 shall
be as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lorain Avenue
and the center line of West 48th

66
Street; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Lorain Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of West 25th Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of
West 25th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Bridge
Avenue, N. W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Bridge
Avenue, N. W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 22nd
Street; thence southeasterly along
the center line of West 22nd Street
and its prolongation to its intersection with the center line of the RTA
main line tracks; thence northerly
along the center line of the RTA
main line tracks and bridge to its
intersection with the center line of
Franklin Avenue, N.W.; thence easterly
along
the
center
line
of
Franklin Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Columbus
Road,
N.W.;
thence
northerly along the center line of
Columbus Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
RTA bridge; thence northerly along
the center line of the RTA bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River easterly, northeasterly, northwesterly, easterly, southeasterly and southwesterly to its
intersection with the center line of
the Hope Memorial Bridge; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the Hope Memorial Bridge to its
intersection with the northeasterly
right of way line of the former Erie
Railroad;
thence
northwesterly
along the northeasterly line of the
right of way of the former Erie
Railroad to its intersection with the
center
line
of
Columbus
Road;
thence southerly along the center
line of Columbus Road to its intersection with the center line of Moore
Avenue; thence easterly along the
center line of Moore Avenue to its
intersection with the center line of
West 20 Street; thence southwesterly along the center line of West 20
Street to its intersection with the
center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge and the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 21st Place;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 21st Place to its intersection with the center line of
Abbey Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Abbey
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
West 20th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 20th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Freeman Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Freeman Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 19th Street; thence southerly, westerly and southerly along the
center line of West 19th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Willey Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly and easterly along the center line of Willey Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Scranton Road, S.W.; thence continuing easterly along the center
line of Kenilworth Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 71; thence southwesterly, southeasterly and southwesterly along the center line of Interstate
71 to its intersection with the center line of West 25th Street; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of West 25th Street to its intersec-

The City Record
tion with the center line of Scranton
Road, S.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Scranton
Road, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Ketteringham
Road, S.W. formerly known as View
Road, S.W. (now vacated); thence
easterly, northeasterly and northerly along the center line of Ketteringham Road, S.W. (now vacated) to
its intersection with the center line
of South Point Drive, S.W.; thence
westerly, southwesterly and westerly along the center line of South
Point Drive, S.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 25th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Woodbridge Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Woodbridge Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 35th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 35th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Tyler Court, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Tyler Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
32nd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 32nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
35th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 35th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Court, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
39th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of West 39th Place
to its intersection with the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Bush Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
41st Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 41st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Fulton Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Fulton Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Poe
Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Poe Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West 44th Place; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of West 44th Place to its intersection with Hodgson Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Hodgson Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 44th Street; thence northerly along the center line of West 44th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Bush Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 46th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 46th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 52nd Street; thence northeasterly along the center line of West
52nd Street to its intersection with
the center line of Storer Avenue,
S.W.; thence westerly along the center line of Storer Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 53rd Street; thence northerly
along the center line of West 53rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Field Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Field Avenue, S.W. to its inter-

2002

August 22, 2001
section with the center line of West
52nd Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 52nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Clark Avenue, S.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Clark Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
51st Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 51st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Train Avenue, S. W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Train Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
44th Street; thence in a general
northerly direction along the center
line of West 44th Street to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence westerly along the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad to its intersection with
the southerly prolongation of West
48th Street; thence northerly along
the southerly prolongation and the
center line of West 48th Street to
the place of beginning.
Section 2. That existing Sections
103.13 and 103.14 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1177-01,
passed June 11, 2001, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1571-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Finance to immediately deposit funds from the General Fund into the Neighborhood Equity Fund and the Ward Capital
Improvement Fund.
Whereas, it was Council’s clear
intention
that
the
Neighborhood
Equity Fund and the Ward Capital
Improvement Fund should be fully
funded
and
retain
all
interest
earned by monies deposited into
said funds, and such funds have not
been so funded; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to immediately deposit from the
General Fund into the Neighborhood Equity Fund, Fund No. 10,
Sub-Fund No. 166, the amount of
Ten Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($10,500,000.00), and
into the Ward Capital Improvement
Fund, Fund No. 10, Sub-Fund No.
168, the amount of Five Million
Five Hundred Seventeen Thousand
Four Hundred Thirty Seven Dollars
($5,517,437.00).
These
respective

August 22, 2001
amounts are hereby encumbered
within the General Fund for deposit
in said Funds and the purposes of
said Funds.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1572-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Finance to immediately deposit funds from the Capital
Sidewalk Improvements Fund within the General Fund into the Ward
Capital Improvement Fund.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to immediately deposit Six Million
One Hundred Sixty Seven Thousand Four Hundred Thirty Seven
Dollars ($6,167,437.00) from Fund
No. 20, Sub-fund No. 375, which is
denominated the “Capital Sidewalk
Improvements” fund, of the General Fund, into the Ward Capital
Improvement Fund, Fund No. 10,
Sub-Fund No. 168. These respective
amounts are hereby encumbered
within
the
General
Fund
for
deposit
in
said
Ward
Capital
Improvement Fund for the purposes of said Fund.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1573-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Slavic Village Development Corporation for Architectural Feasibility
Study through the use of Ward 12
Neighborhood Equity Funds.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Slavic Village Development
Corporation for Architectural Feasibility Study on the following properties; St. Hyacinth Parish Buildings
at 6114 Franel Street, Our Lady of
Lourdes Convent at 3395 East 53rd
Street, Holy Name School at 8238
Broadway Avenue, and J.L. Goodman Building at 8238 Broadway
Avenue, for the public purpose of
promoting commercial and residential development in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $34,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1574-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Neighborhood Progress
Inc. to provide a Ward 18 Cudell
Community Planning and Assessment Process through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Neighborhood Progress Inc. to
provide a Ward 18 Cudell Community
Planning
and
Assessment
Process for the public purpose of
providing a strategic educational
planning program for local community leadership to develop, promote,
and
implement
a
comprehensive
community
plan
for
Ward
18,
through the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

2003

67
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1575-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 8th Annual NE Ohio
Race for the Cure, on September 16,
2001, sponsored by Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 8th Annual NE
Ohio Race for the Cure sponsored
by Hermes Race Systems, on September 16, 2001, beginning at East
Blvd. and Euclid Avenue, Euclid
Avenue to Chester, Chester to MLK,
MLK to Superior Avenue Ramp,
Superior Avenue Ramp to East
Blvd., East Blvd. to Wade Oval,
Wade Oval to finish, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

68
Ord. No. 1654-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Westside Industrial
Retention & Expansion Network for
Industrial
Retention
and
Public
Safety Programs through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Westside Industrial Retention
&
Expansion
Network
for
Industrial
Retention
and
Public
Safety Programs, for the public purpose of promoting industrial retention,
and
expansion,
community
improvements to the neighborhood
commercial district, and the implementation of community policing to
enhance the safety of residents, and
area businesses, through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $92,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Coats and Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1576-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 12208 Bellaire Rd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

The City Record
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0598188, owned by Bellaire Beverage, DBA Bellaire Beverage, 12208 Bellaire Rd., Cleveland,
Ohio 44135 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1577-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 8214 Cedar Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor per-

2004

August 22, 2001
mits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9737130, owned by Wolfs Den Corp.,
DBA Wolfs Den, 8214 Cedar Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1578-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 8301 Cedar
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Per-

August 22, 2001
mit, Permit No. 91232720002, owned
by 2758 East 79th Café Inc., DBA
Bee Hive Café, 8301 Cedar Avenue,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1579-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2068613, owned by Devious McDade,
DBA DE & TS Maxwell, 8302 Cedar
Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44103 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1580-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 8624 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0299723, owned by Asma
Yusuf, Inc., 8624 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Direc-

2005

69
tor’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1581-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 10812 Cedar Ave.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
089835654157, owned by BP Exploration & Oil Inc., DBA Site 54157,
10812 Cedar Ave., Cleveland, Ohio
44106 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

70
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1582-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 9308 Chester
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 84910459308, owned by
Standard Oil Co., DBA BP Food Mart
04230, 9308 Chester Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1583-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1930 East 79th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1302675, owned by Cascian Corp., Inc., DBA Quik Pik Market, 1930 East 79th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

2006

August 22, 2001
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1584-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2220 East 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9122348, owned by 2220
East 105th Inc., DBA Cross Town
Food Market, 2220 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1585-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2249 E. 105th St.,
1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7644062, owned by Jerry
SAA, DBA PNG Supermarket, 2249 E.
105th St. 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44106 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1586-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11543-45 Mt. Carmel
Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8303228, owned by Oscar
G. Smith, Jr., DBA Mountain Top
Grocery, 11543-45 Mt. Carmel Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1587-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 8329 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

2007

71
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1129803, owned by Burton
Enterprises Inc., DBA First Page
Lounge, 8329 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1588-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 8502 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

72
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
36356500005, owned by Harry John
Inc., 8502 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44106 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1589-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9209 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6416769, owned by 9209
Quincy Inc., DBA Sammor Corners,
9209 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1590-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of East 51st Place.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 51st Place as hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
East 51st Place (30.00 feet wide),
extending Southerly from that portion of East 51st Place vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance Number 1758-53, passed
June 29, 1953, to its Southerly terminus.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

2008

August 22, 2001
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1591-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 620 Frankfort Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2289880, owned by Down
River Specialties Inc., 620 Frankfort
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

August 22, 2001
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1592-01.
By Councilman Cimperman
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer
of ownership and location of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 1281 West 9th Street, and repealing Res. No. 1418-01 objecting to
said transfer of ownership and
location.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership and location of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to 1281 West 9th
Street by Res. No. 1418-01 adopted by
Council July 18, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and location
and consents to said transfer of
ownership and location; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership and location
of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1281 West 9th Street, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 1418-01, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
of ownership and location thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1593-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 14643 Coit Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

The City Record
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 50434590001, owned by
Joel Latimore, DBA Coit Road Beverage, 14643 Coit Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1594-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D4 Liquor
Permit at 527 East 140th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

2009

73
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D4 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
92623552926, owned by VFW Post
2926 Collinwood, 527 East 140th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1595-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 662 East 140th
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of

74
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
5439362,
owned
by
Maisam Corp, DBA Four M Food
Market, 662 East 140th Street, 1st
Fl.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44110
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1596-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 625 East 140th
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6081178, owned by Moes
Stop One Inc., 625 East 140th Street,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1597-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 831 East 140th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3700511, owned by Sabrina A. Head,
DBA East 140th Food & Beverage,
831 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing

2010

August 22, 2001
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1598-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1030 East 152nd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1745954, owned by John
L. Cornelius, 1030 East 152nd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

August 22, 2001
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1599-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 18121 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1709358, owned by
Convenient Food Mart Inc., DBA
Convenient
Food,
18121
Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based

The City Record
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1600-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 12730 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 26001810001, owned
by F & A Beverage, 12730 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

2011

75
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1601-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 13001 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8930790, owned by Tiggs Bar &
Restaurant Inc., 13001 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44108
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

76
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1602-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 14102-06 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2655243, owned by Fast
& Friendly, Inc., 14102-06 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44110 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1603-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 12901 Shaw
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6310018, owned by
Nasser Inc., 12901 Shaw Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

2012

August 22, 2001
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1604-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 2139 Broadview Rd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1896770, owned by Dalaps Group
Inc., DBA Last Chance, 2139 Broadview Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1605-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3829 Denison Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 2916712, owned
by Frenchies Escape Lounge Inc.,
3829 Denison Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

The City Record
Res. No. 1606-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3912
Archwood, 1st Fl., and repealing
Res. No. 1445-2000 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 3912 Archwood, 1st Fl. by
Res. No. 1445-2000 adopted by Council on August 7, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3912 Archwood, 1st Fl., be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 1445-2000, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1607-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9901-03 Union
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the

2013

77
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2599989, owned by Fadis
Market Inc., 9901-03 Union Avenue,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1608-01.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 4360 Lee Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

78
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5088723, owned by Lee Miles Service
Inc., DBA Lee-Miles Citgo, 4360 Lee
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1609-01.
By Councilman Jones (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Velma Avenue S.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Velma Avenue as hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
Velma Avenue S.E. (25.00 feet wide),
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of East 141st Street (50.00
feet wide), to the Westerly line of
East 142nd Street (50.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1610-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a Liquor Permit at 1905 East 55th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 00239900005, owned by
Abeco Ayad Inc., DBA Grandpas
Kitchen,
1905
East
55th
Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

2014

August 22, 2001
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1611-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1136 East 79th Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8601226, owned by Malissie Stokes,
DBA Grocery Deli, 1136 East 79th
Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1612-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1144 East 71st Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2586684, owned by Vernadette M.
Evans, DBA Big Momma Deli, 1144
East 71st Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44103 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1613-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 7001 Hough Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7658201, owned by Sabrina Inc., DBA Kwik Shop, 7001
Hough
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44103 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1614-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7102 Hough Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the re-

2015

79
newal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8681813, owned by
Sulaiman Inc., 7102 Hough Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1615-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 8802-06 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

80
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2455399, owned by
8802 Superior Hawk Inc., DBA Superior Food Market, 8802-06 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44101 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1616-01.
By Councilman Lewis (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of Addison Place and East 72nd
Street.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
portions of Addison Place and East
72nd Street as hereinafter described;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of

The City Record
Addison
Place
(width
varies),
between East 72nd Street (65.00 feet
wide) and Wade Park Avenue (70.00
feet wide).
and
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
East 72nd Street (65.00 feet wide)
between Wade Park Avenue (70.00
feet wide) and Dellenbaugh Avenue
(50.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1617-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
5910
Detroit
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 91255550005, owned by
Two N. Inc., DBA Convenient Foods,
5910 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based

2016

August 22, 2001
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1618-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 7310 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0345134, owned by AZIZ Corp., DBA
West 73rd Shell, 7310 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

August 22, 2001
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1619-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 6104 Storer Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0569335, owned by Bee Hive Tavern
Inc., DBA Bee Hive Tavern, 6104
Storer Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1620-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 863-71 East 93rd
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7702571, owned by Samia
Inc., DBA Convenience Deli, 863-71
East 93rd Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44108 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

2017

81
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1621-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1250 East 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; arid
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
7809310,
owned
by
Scheherazade Foods Inc., DBA Midtown Savmor, 1250 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

82
Res. No. 1622-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 970 Lakeview Rd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; arid
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
6234793,
owned
by
Karimeh A. Muntaser, DBA Lakeview Superette, 970 Lakeview Rd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1623-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 974-78 Parkwood, 1st Fl.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
0037309,
owned
by
Shahrazan Abuzahrieh, DBA Sunshine Food Market, 974-78 Parkwood, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44108
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1624-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 9021 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

2018

August 22, 2001
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6417910, owned by 91st
Sorp., 9021 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1625-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 231 East 156th Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the re-

August 22, 2001
newal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0142108, owned by Alojz Znidarsic
Inc., DBA Glen Cove Pub, 231 East
156th Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44110 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1626-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 397 E.
156th St., 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5819446,
owned by Melbourne Men-Business,
DBA Café Bluebird, 397 E. 156th St.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1627-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 910 East 185th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

2019

83
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
56036170115, owned by Mascot Petroleum Co. Inc., DBA Sunoco Sunmart,
910 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44119 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1628-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6
Liquor
Permit
at
15428
Lakeshore Blvd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or

84
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6700191, owned by
Park CFM Inc., DBA Convenient
Foods, 15428 Lakeshore Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1629-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 17318 Lakeshore
Blvd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

The City Record
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 51799020005, owned by
Lez, Inc., DBA Convenient Express,
17318 Lakeshore Blvd., Cleveland,
Ohio 44119 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1630-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 15521 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

2020

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1709285, owned by Convenient Food Mart Inc., DBA Convenient Food, 15521 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1631-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 17910
Lakeshore Blvd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safe-

August 22, 2001
ty and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1165352,
owned by C & CS Corner Tavern,
DBA
Time
Out
Grill,
17910
Lakeshore Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio
44119 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1632-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 747 East 185th Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor per-

The City Record
mits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3983152, owned by Horseshoe Booze
& Food, Inc., 747 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1633-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit to 568 East 185th Street, and
repealing Res. No. 962-01 objecting
to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to 568 East
185th Street by Res. No. 962-01 adopted by Council on May 21, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership based
upon and pursuant to a cooperation
agreement signed August 1, 2001, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1 and
D2 Liquor Permit to 568 East 185th
Street, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 962-01, containing said objection, be and the
same if hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.

2021

85
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1634-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 15601 Waterloo Rd., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., and repealing Res. No. 14552000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to 15601
Waterloo Rd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt. by
Res. No. 1455-2000 adopted by Council on August 7, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
signed
August 9, 2001, a copy of which is
in the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to 15601 Waterloo
Rd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1455-2000, containing said objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1635-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council business cards and note
pads for a period of two years and
authorizing the Clerk of Council to
enter into a requirement contract for
the same.

86
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Brothers Printing Co. for Council business cards
and note pads for the Clerk of Council for a period of two years is the
lowest and best bid received after
advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No. 388-01, passed
March 5, 2001, and the Clerk of
Council be and she hereby is authorized to enter into a requirement
contract with Brothers Printing Co.
for such services in accordance with
specifications upon which said bid
was received. The cost of said contract shall be payable out of funds
appropriated for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1636-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council ward mailing services for a
period of two years and authorizing
the Clerk of Council to enter into a
requirement contract for the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Cleveland Letter Service for Council ward mailing
services for the Clerk of Council for
a period of two years is the lowest
and best bid received after advertising in accordance with Section
108 of the City Charter, pursuant to
Ordinance No. 387-01, passed March
5, 2001, and the Clerk of Council be
and she hereby is authorized to
enter into a requirement contract
with Cleveland Letter Service for
such services in accordance with
specifications upon which said bid
was received. The cost of said contract shall be payable out of funds
appropriated for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1637-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council printing services for ward
mailings for a period of two years
and authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into a requirement contract for the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Legal News
Publishing Company for printing
services for ward mailings for the
Clerk of Council for a period of two
years is the lowest and best bid
received after advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City
Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No.
625-01, passed April 2, 2001, and the
Clerk of Council be and she hereby
is authorized to enter into a requirement contract with Legal News Publishing Company for such services
in accordance with specifications
upon which said bid was received.
The cost of said contract shall be
payable out of funds appropriated
for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1638-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
expedited printing services for ward
mailings for a period of two years
and authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter a requirement contract
for the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Orange Blossom Press for expedited printing
services for ward mailings for the
Clerk of Council for a period of two
years is the lowest and best bid

2022

August 22, 2001
received after advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City
Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No.
625-01, passed April 2, 2001, and the
Clerk of Council be and she hereby
is authorized to enter into a requirement contract with Orange Blossom
Press for such services in accordance
with
specifications
upon
which said bid was received. The
cost
of
said
contract
shall
be
payable out of funds appropriated
for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1639-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council letterhead and envelopes for
a period of two years and authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a requirement contract for the
same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Orange Blossom Press for Council letterhead
and envelopes for the Clerk of Council for a period of two years is the
lowest and best bid received after
advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No. 388-01, passed
March 5, 2001, and the Clerk of
Council be and she hereby is authorized to enter into a requirement
contract with Orange Blossom Press
for such services in accordance with
specifications upon which said bid
was received. The cost of said contract shall be payable out of funds
appropriated for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1640-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron
and Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the closing by Dominion East
Ohio Gas Company of its Payment
and Billing Explanation Center in
Downtown Cleveland, and requesting that the Company reconsider its
decision.
Whereas, Dominion East Ohio Gas
Company has announced the closing
of its last two Payment and Billing
Explanation Centers, including one
located in Downtown Cleveland as
of September 8, 2001, and
Whereas,
72,000
customers
of
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company
depend upon these walk-in Payment
and Billing Explanation Centers,
which provide customers with the
immediate ability to, among other
things, have questions answered,
schedule
investigations
and
rereads, and have gas turned on or
off, and
Whereas, without a walk-in Payment and Billing Explanation Center, customers will be limited to
unreliable call-in centers to have
questions and problems handled,
and such centers often fail to provide proper accessibility and service
to consumers; and
Whereas, for making payments
customers will have to pay up to
$1.00 per transaction to process payments at a store, bank or other business
that
has
contracted
with
Dominion East Ohio to handle such
transactions; and more than a third
of such centers accept cash only;
and
Whereas, the need for personal
contact with representatives of the
gas company has greatly increased
with the advent in October of 2000
of the gas choice program, which
has created confusion and concern
among consumers, and with the
huge increases in rates, causing
many customers to incur delinquencies and require assistance to establish payment arrangements in order
to maintain service; and
Whereas, the closing of Dominion
East Ohio’s Payment and Billing
Explanation Center in Cleveland
would be a blatant attack on consumers in order to save the Company money as it seeks to compete
with gas marketers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland objects to the closing of the Dominion East Ohio Gas
Company
Payment
and
Billing
Explanation Center in Downtown
Cleveland, and urges Dominion East
Ohio to reconsider the closing in
order to adequately serve the needs
of the poor, elderly, and most vulnerable residents of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution the
Chairman of the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio and to Dominion East Ohio Gas Company.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1641-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3616 East 131st Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4182903, owned by JRDT Ltd, DBA
M & M Lounge, 3616 East 131st
Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44120
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

2023

87
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1642-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3976 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4069363, owned by Lebyron Humphrey, DBA Big Forty, 3976
East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

88
Res. No. 1643-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3744 East 144th
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8916789, owned by 3744
East 144th Inc., DBA F & A Food
Market, 3744 East 144th Street, 1st
Fl.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44120
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1644-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 13401 Kinsman Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0296859, owned by Ashishi Inc., DBA
Ranie Food Market, 13401 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1645-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 14510 Kinsman Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 6072057, Mo
& Son Inc., 14510 Kinsman Ave.,

2024

August 22, 2001
Cleveland, Ohio 44120 to Permit No.
7682209, Muaad Salem, DBA Kinsman Sunoci, 14510 Kinsman Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 6072057, Mo &
Son Inc., 14510 Kinsman Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44120 to Permit No.
7682209, Muaad Salem, DBA Kinsman Sunoci, 14510 Kinsman Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1646-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution
objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 7663
Broadway Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8360320, owned
by Soldat Enterprises Inc., DBA
Lefty’s, 7663 Broadway Avenue, 1st
Fl.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

The City Record
Res. No. 1647-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3071 East
65th Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4199709, owned
by James Jackson, DBA Vince’s
Café, 3071 East 65th Street, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

2025

89
Res. No. 1648-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 4792 Rocky
River Drive.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0083167, owned by
Airport Deli Inc., DBA Airport Deli,
4792 Rocky River Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

90
Res. No. 1649-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 10025
Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8200099,
owned by Sixty Nine Inc., 10025
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1650-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 13197-201 Miles Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8434110, owned by Three Spink, Inc.,
13197-201 Miles Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1651-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 4563
Warner Road, and repealing Res.
No.
1544-2000
objecting
to
said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor

2026

August 22, 2001
Permit to 4563 Warner Road by Res.
No. 1544-2000 adopted by Council
August 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 4563 Warner Road, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Res.
No. 1544-2000, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1652-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 10509 Ashbury
Avenue
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6548639, owned by 10509
Ashbury Inc., DBA First Choice Beverage, 10509 Ashbury Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests the

August 22, 2001
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Res. No. 1653-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 11625 Superior Ave.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1944364, owned by Dave’s
Drive Thru Inc., 11625 Superior Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1125-99.
By Councilmen Patmon, Jackson,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 10004-06 South Boulevard to Glenville Development Corporation or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, and in Section
1,
lines
3
and
4,
strike
“Glenville Development Corporation”
and insert in lieu thereof “Famicos
Foundation”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 168-A-01. (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 168-01).
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds in
the principal amount not to exceed
$4,500,000 for the purpose of acquiring property for Urban Renewal Project Activities; authorizing the purchase of certain properties for that
purpose; and authorizing related
matters.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning

2027

91
Commission, Law; Relieved of Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning;
Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 21 to read as
follows:
“Section 21. That underwriters’
counsel for the bond issuance and
sale authorized herein shall be
Thompson Hine LLP and David Hill
and Associates.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 21 to
new “Section 22”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 640-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to authorize the City of Cleveland to
act as an aggregator on behalf of
the natural gas customers within
the City.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committees on Public Utilities, Legislation; Passage recommended by
Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 849-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating,
rehabilitating and improving various parks, recreation facilities and
property, including but not limited
to Camp Forbes, Martin Luther
King, Jr. overpass plantings, Cultural
Garden
Park
Station
and
Memorial Park site improvements,
and authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and
Recreation,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 4 and 5 to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 4. That no funds shall be
expended
for
the
improvement
authorized herein until a report, certified by the Director of Finance,
indicating the unencumbered balance of all general obligation bonds
for the years 1990-2001 is received by
the Council President, the chairperson of the Public Parks, Property
and Recreation Committee, and the
chairperson of the Finance Committee. Such report shall be provided
immediately by the Director of
Finance.

92
Section 5. That, in the event that
the report required by Section 4 indicates there is an unencumbered balance of $3,300,000 or more, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized to do the following:
(a) Pursuant to Section 167 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is hereby determined to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovation, replacing
or otherwise improving certain Cityowned parks in the odd-numbered
wards, in the amount of $300,000 per
odd numbered ward, including all
site
improvements
and
appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto,
for
the
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a unit basis for the
improvement; and
(b) The Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to enter into contract of
the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a unit basis for the
improvement
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a unit basis;
and
(c) The Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to design the public
improvement authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control.
The contract
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance; and
(d) That the improvement authorized in this Section 5 shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which the
unencumbered
general
obligation
balance, certified by the Director of
Finance in the report required by
Section 4, is credited.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 4 to
new “Section 6”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The City Record
Ord. No. 850-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Board of Education to conduct
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of
school children during the 2001-2002
school year.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 2 to read as
follows:
“Section 2. That no money shall
be paid to the Board of Education
pursuant to the above-authorized
contract until the Board of Education has furnished a report to the
Cleveland City Council regarding
the 2000-01 recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs funded by
the $2,000,000 provided to the Board
of Education last year.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 2 to
new “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 891-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Famicos Foundation
for the renovation of the Downtown
Single
Room
Occupancy
(SRO)
building located at 1850 Superior
Avenue, to forward the public purpose of creating and improving
housing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 903-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization for Phase II of the Bridge
Square housing development project
to promote the public purpose of creating housing in Cleveland through
the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development,

2028

August 22, 2001
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new whereas clause
before the existing one to read as
follows:
“Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 3, 4, 5
and 6 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“Community Development Organization, as the City’s agent, to assist
the homebuyers of Phase II of the
Bridge Square housing development
project to promote the public purpose of creating housing in Cleveland through the use of Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 915-01.
By Councilman O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Cleveland Housing
Network, Inc. for the renovation of
a vacant single family housing unit
located at 4214 Memphis Avenue to
promote the public purpose of creating and improving housing in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
16
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development,
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, strike “a
grant” and insert in lieu thereof
“an”.
2. Insert a new whereas clause
before the existing one to read as
follows:
“Whereas the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and”.
3. In Section 1, line 2, strike “a
grant” and insert in lieu thereof
“an”; and strike lines 3, 4, 5 and 6
in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
“Network Inc. as the City’s agent,
to assist the homebuyer of a house
to be renovated at 4214 Memphis
Avenue, through the use of Ward 16
Neighborhood Equity Funds.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 924-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Northeast Shores
Development Corporation for the
renovation of the Huntmere, an
apartment building located at 15510
Huntmere Avenue to further the
public purpose of creating and
improving housing in the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
11 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 928-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Bellaire-Puritas
Development Corporation for the
Ward 20 Fifty-Fifty Home Repair
Program to further the public purpose of improving housing in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
20
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development,
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new whereas clause
before the existing one to read as
follows:
“Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 3, 4, 5
and 6 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“Development Corporation, as the
City’s agent, to carry out the Ward
20 Fifty-Fifty Home Repair Program
to further the public purpose of
improving housing in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 934-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation
for the renovation of a 10 unit apartment building, located at 12001 Ashbury Avenue to forward the public

The City Record
purpose of creating and improving
housing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 935-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Lutheran Housing
Corporation for the Ward 2 Home
Repair Program to further the public purpose of creating and improving housing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Economic
and Community Development; Passage
recommended
by
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new whereas clause
before the existing one to read as
follows:
“Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 3, 4,
and 5 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“Corporation, as the City’s agent,
to carry out the Ward 2 Home
Repair Program to further the public purpose of creating and improving housing in the City of Cleveland, through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1046-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair interior and exterior bodies of motor vehicle fleet, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.

2029

93
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1075-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio, Department of natural
Resources for the Round 8 NatureWorks Program; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement
of
rehabilitating
a
City-owned park and authorizing
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to enter into contract
for the making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1079-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the 2001
Urban Parks and Recreation Recovery Program, for the rehabilitation
of Bisbee Playground; determining
the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating Bisbee playground; and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into contract for
the making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1132-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Corporation for their Neighborhood Safety
Video Monitoring program in order
to carry out the public purpose of
providing increased safety and security through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development,
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

94
Ord. No. 1144-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of billing system supplies,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1145-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary to
upgrade the residuals handling systems at the Garrett A. Morgan
Water Treatment plant, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1149-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide assessment,
developmental services and training
sessions to employees regarding
Federal and State environmental,
OSHA, safety and health regulations.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1156-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with Dionex Corporation for maintenance of ion chromatograph and appurtenances, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1157-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with Hach Company for maintenance and calibration
of turbidimeters, chlorine analyzers
and particle-size analyzers, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed three years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1158-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with Shimadzu Scientific Instruments, Inc. for maintenance of total organic carbon analyzer equipment, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1164-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Mount
Pleasant
NOW Development Corporation for
the purchase and installation of two
elevators in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing social
programs through the use of Ward
3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development,
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7, 8 and
9 in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following: “two elevators
in connection with construction of a
commercial office building in order
to carry out the public purpose of
creating new jobs in the City of
Cleveland through the use of
2. In Section 1, strike lines 4 and
5 and insert in lieu thereof the following:

2030

August 22, 2001
“two elevators in connection with
construction of a commercial office
building in order to carry out the
public purpose of creating new jobs
in the City of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 3 Neighborhood”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1166-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Dove Park Panthers
Youth Association for their Muny
Football Program in order to carry
out the public purpose of providing
recreational programs through the
use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1213-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section
1
of
Ordinance
1715-99,
passed September 27, 1999, to authorize and approve a mortgage loan
and/or grant assistance program for
the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals and families, through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, strike “for”
and insert in lieu thereof “to”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1216-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
809-01 passed May 14, 2001 to enter
into
a
grant
agreement
with
Tremont West Development Corporation for the development of a master plan and a HOPE VI application
in order to carry out the public purposes of conducting a neighborhood

August 22, 2001
planning study and providing housing, using Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1227-01.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000,
passed April 17, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
for
individuals
and
families,
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1230-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
in the Eco-Village development for
individuals and families, through
the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike line 6 in its
entirety and insert in lieu thereof
the following: “City to individuals
and families purchasing”; and in
line 7 strike “sale of”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1231-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an amendment to Loan Agreement No. 53646
with Otis Associates Limited Partnership, to make modifications to
the contract.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1232-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering,
environmental, safety, forensic, and
other services needed for the various divisions of the Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Utilities; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1235-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000,
passed January 24, 2000, to authorize and approve a mortgage loan
and/or grant assistance program for
the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals and families, through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development,
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 5 and
6 in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following: “second mortgage assistance from the City to
individuals and families purchasing
houses in the City of”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1237-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 1137-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
for individuals and families.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Commu-

2031

95
nity and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1238-01.
By
Councilman
Polensek
(by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Mr. William
McReynolds to encroach into the
public
right-of-way,
of
Tiverton
Road N.E. to construct a fence covering 50 feet of unimproved right-ofway on this street.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Service, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1240-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000,
passed June 12, 2000, to authorize
and approve financial assistance for
the Harvard School Senior Apartments project, to carry out the public purpose of providing housing for
individuals in the City of Cleveland,
through the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved by Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 7 and 8 and
in the first whereas clause, line 4
and 5, strike “providing housing for
individuals” and insert in lieu thereof “assisting industry and commerce”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1337-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with A Cultural Exchange for
The Read, Baby, Read, Book Club
through the use of Ward 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.

96
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1339-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Collinwood Community
Services Center to fund an elderly
services program for senior citizens
that are on fixed income, through
the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3 and in Section 1, line 1, strike “Community
Development” and insert in lieu
thereof “Aging”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1340-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement
with
Kenneth
W.
Clement School - Cleveland Public
School District for purchase of classroom furniture for Cleveland Public
School children through the use of
Ward
10
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1341-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1776-A-90, passed April 22, 1991, as
amended by Ordinance No. 960-99,
passed June 7, 1999, and Ordinance
No. 2093-99, passed December 13,
1999, relating to establishing the
City of Cleveland as a Community
Reinvestment Area, except the area
defined as the “Downtown Plan
Area” by the Civic Vision 2000 Plan;
and to repeal Ordinance No 1089-01,
passed June 4, 2001.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and

The City Record
Economic Development, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1347-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan for the purchase,
rehabilitation
or
construction
of
rental and for sale housing.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1348-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with the Boys and Girls
Clubs of Cleveland for economic
assistance to finance the development of a recreational facility on
Broadway Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 6, strike
“45608” and insert in lieu thereof
“45708”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1349-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56549
with W.E.B. DuBois Community Center for additional rehabilitation program costs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.

2032

August 22, 2001
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1350-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to amend Contract No.
56705 with Kamm’s Corners Community Development Corporation for
the redevelopment of the southeast
quadrant of the existing parking lot.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, strike
“$50,000” and insert in lieu thereof
“$80,000”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1352-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Office of Criminal
Justice Services for the Second District Project, Domestic Violence Program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1353-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Office of Criminal
Justice Services for the Cleveland
Municipal Court Soliciting/Prostitution, Project HOPE Program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1354-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to service and maintain
police aircraft, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year with four oneyear options to renew.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1356-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Department of Justice, Office of
Criminal Justice Services, for the
2002 Caribbean Gang Task Force
Program; and to enter into contracts
necessary to implement the Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1357-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice, OCJS, for the Cleveland Team
Approach
to
Violence
Against
Women Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1358-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Department of Justice, Office of
Community Oriented Policing Services for the COPS In Schools Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1359-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the STEP 2002 Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1360-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1427-2000, passed August 7, 2000,
relating to a grant for the 2000-2001
Emergency Medical Services Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1361-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Lewis
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 627.10 of the Codified Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
as
amended by Ordinance No. 1359-91,
passed July 24, 1991, relating to possessing certain weapons at or about
public places.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Relieved by
Committee on Public Safety, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at Section 617.10(f),
line 4, strike “or that” and insert in
lieu thereof “and that either (i)”; in
line 5, strike “and that business” and
insert in lieu thereof “or pursuit and
that business or pursuit”; and in line
7, strike “trade, or” and insert in lieu
thereof “trade or pursuit, or (ii)”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

2033

97
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 939-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate a portion of
Conn Court N.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law;
Adoption
recommended
by
Committees on Public Service, City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1246-01.
By Councilman Coats (by departmental request).
An ordinance to assess the cost
and expense of construction and
repairing of sidewalks and curbing.
(Endora Avenue Assessment).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Service; Passage recommended by Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
Ord. No. 1247-01.
By Councilmen Coats, O’Malley
and
Polensek
(by
departmental
request).
An ordinance to assess the cost
and expense of construction and
repairing of sidewalks and curbing.
(W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave.
Assessment).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Service, Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Dolan.
Absent: Council Members Cimperman and Jones.
MOTION
By Council Member Westbrook,
seconded by Council Member Brady
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Joe Cimperman and Council Member Joseph
T. Jones is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
to meet Monday, September 10, 2001
at 7:00 p.m.

Clerk of Council

The City Record

98
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
August 15, 2001
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, August 15,
2001, at 11:00 a.m. with Mayor White
presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow,
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting
Director Huth, Director Alexander.
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 539-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on July 20, 2001 for Jacobsen Mower Parts (all items) for the
various divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 489-01, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on June 19,
2001, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 540-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on June 29, 2001 for estimated quantity of crew cab chassis
with utility service body/pipe repair
truck (Item 2) for the various divisions of City government, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1685-2000, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on October 30,
2000, and Ordinance No. 99-01, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on January 22, 2001, be and the
same are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 541-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Wise International Trucks of
Ohio for an estimated quantity of
stripped
chassis
with
step
van
body/pipe repair truck (Item 1), for
the various divisions of City gov-

ernment, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract received on
June 29, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1685-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 30, 2000, and
Ordinance No. 99-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
January 22, 2001, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Three Hundred TwentyFive Thousand Three Hundred Seventy-Four
and
00/100
Dollars,
($325,374.00), (Net 10 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Finance is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29755
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Hundred Sixteen Thousand Nine
Hundred Sixteen and 00/100 Dollars
($216,916.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 542-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of West Park Auto
Parts for an estimated quantity of
Motor Vehicle Parts and Service, all
items, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of three
(3) years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract received
on the 19th day of July, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 544-01, passed May 21, 2001 on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Nine Hundred
Ninety Thousand and no/100 Dollars, ($990,000.00), (2% 30 Days) is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 50206
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Fifty Thousand and no/100
Dollars ($150,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.

2034

August 22, 2001
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
West Park Auto Parts for motor
vehicle parts & service for the
requirement
contract
authorized
above is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE
M. J. Industrial
$99,000.00 — (FBE) — 10%
Poly Service Inc.
$148,500.00 — (MBE) — 15%
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 543-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Lake Erie Electric, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of maintenance of decorative and special
lighting, all items, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract
received on the 5th day of July,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 830-2000, passed June
12, 2000 on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Three
Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars, ($300,000.00), (Net 30 Days) is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 50165
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($100,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 544-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1024-97, passed
by Cleveland City Council on June
16, 1997 and Resolution No. 800-97
adopted by the City Board of Control on September 24, 1997, the City
of Cleveland entered into a Lease
By Way of Concession (“Agreement”) with Dollar Rent A Car Systems, Inc. (“Dollar”), City Contract
No. 52456, for Dollar’s use of certain

The City Record

August 22, 2001
counter space and ready/return area
at the rental car facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(“Rental Car Facility”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Article XV
of said Agreement Dollar desires to
sublease part its leased premises at
the Rental Car Facility to Avis Rent
A Car Systems, Inc. (“Avis”); and
Whereas,
subleasing
of
said
premises to Avis shall not constitute
a release or waiver of any of Dollar’s obligations under City Contract
No. 52456; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the terms of the Agreement,
this
Board
does
hereby
approve the request of Dollar to
enter into a sublease with Avis for
Avis’ exclusive use of eleven (11)
ready/return
stalls,
commencing
May 1, 2001 for a period coterminous
with Dollar’s Agreement or the next
reallocation of ready/return stalls,
whichever is earlier, provided that
the terms of such sublease shall not
be in conflict with the terms of City
Contract No. 52456.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to complete and execute any
documents necessary and appropriate to effect the consent to the sublease hereby approved, which documents shall contain such additional
terms and conditions as the Director
shall deem necessary to protect the
City’s interests.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 545-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Board of Control Resolution No. 443-01, adopted July 11,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1268-97 passed April 6,
1998
and
Ordinance
No.
1004-01
passed June 19, 2001, approving
Superior Electric Company, for the
public improvement of Redundant
Electrical Source Construction, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, the employment of the
following subcontractors for the
above mentioned public improvement project is hereby approved.
Subcontractors

Service

Lawrence Harris
3906 Woodbine Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44113
6% — MBE
Excavation, backfill, concrete
mat and concrete encasement, manhole installation,
manholes and pavement
removal
Minority Electric Company
200 East 28th Street
Lorain, Ohio 44055-1324
1% — MBE
Electrical work
as directed
United Ready Mix, Inc.
1971 Carter Road
Cleveland, OH 44113
1% — MBE
Concrete

Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 546-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Vidette Communications, d.b.a.
Western Reserve Communications
for labor and materials necessary to
install
aviation
communications
equipment, including removal of
existing equipment, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
for the period not to exceed two
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
17th of May, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 642-01,
passed on May 21, 2001, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Fifteen Thousand
Ninety Eight and 00/100 Dollars,
($15,098.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Port Control is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such labor
and
materials
necessary,
which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 35968
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Five
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($5,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, not to exceed a total
of $50,000.00 in value, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Warren.
Resolution No. 547-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to authority of Ordinance No. 1032-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
June 19, 2001, the firm of DLZ Ohio,
Inc. is hereby selected upon the
nomination of the Director of Public
Service from a list of qualified engineering consultants or firms of such
consultants, determined to be available after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service as the firm to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City in order to
obtain
engineering
services
to
design the rehabilitation of Central
Avenue, between E. 22nd Street and
E. 55th Street.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into a written
contract with DLZ Ohio, Inc. based

2035

99
on its proposal dated March 13, 2001,
provided that the compensation to
be paid shall not exceed Three Hundred
Thirty-Two
Thousand,
One
Hundred Forty and 00/100 Dollars
($332,140.00). The agreement authorized hereby shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by DLZ Ohio, Inc. for
the design services contract authorized above hereby is approved:
Ralph Tyler Companies
1120 Chester Avenue, Suite 200
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
(MBE) — $46,400 — (14.00%)
Prime Engineering, Inc.
1038 Ghent Road
Akron, Ohio 44333
(MBE) — $24,645 — (8.00%)
KS Associates
260 Burns Road, Suite 100
Elyria, Ohio 44036
(FBE) — $17,017 — (6.00%)
United Survey, Inc.
25145 Broadway Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44146
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 548-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to authority of Ordinance No. 1032-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
June 19, 2001, the firm of Finkbeiner, Pettis & Strout is hereby selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified engineering consultants or firms of such consultants
determined to be available after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City in order to obtain engineering services to design the rehabilitation
of
East
79th
Street,
between
St.
Clair
Avenue
and
Chester Avenue.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into a written
contract with Finkbeiner, Pettis &
Strout based on its proposal dated
March 13, 2001, provided that the
compensation to be paid shall not
exceed Four Hundred Fifty-Nine
Thousand, Three Hundred TwentyTwo
and
07/100
Dollars
($459,322.07). The agreement authorized hereby shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following sub-

The City Record

100
consultants by Finkbeiner, Pettis &
Strout for the design services contract authorized above hereby is
approved:
Central Engineering
22700 Royalton Road
Strongsville, Ohio 44136
(MBE) — $64,060 — (14%)
Resource International
9885 Rockside Road
Independence, Ohio 44131
(FBE) — $40,295 — (9%)
Aerocon Photogrammetric Services, Inc.
4515 Glenbrook Road
Willoughby, Ohio 44094-8215
$6,275
United Survey, Inc.
25145 Broadway Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44146
$11,976
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 549-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1058-99, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on June 14, 1999, and Resolution No. 811-99, adopted by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
on December 15, 1999, the City of
Cleveland entered into a contract
with Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc.
DBA Buckeye Volvo Trucks, for the
purchase of an estimated quantity
of 6 x 6 cab/chassis with dump body
and plow for a total amount of
$349,992.00; and
Whereas, Omnicor Truck Centers,
Inc., DBA Buckeye Volvo Trucks
has, by letter dated April 5, 2001,
requested the consent of the City
to
assign
and
make
payments
under said agreement to Associates
Commercial
Corporation;
now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the request of Omnicor Truck Centers,
Inc.,
DBA
Buckeye
Volvo
Trucks to assign the payments
under the City Contract No. 55855 for
the purchase of an estimated quantity of 6 x 6 cab/chassis with dump
body and plow from Omnicor Truck
Centers, Inc., DBA Buckeye Volvo
Trucks to Associates Commercial
Corporation is hereby approved.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to execute any document
necessary and appropriate to effect
the consent to such assignment. A
copy of the assignment shall be
filed in the office of the Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

Resolution No. 550-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1058-99, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on June 14, 1999, and Resolution No. 811-99, adopted by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
on December 15, 1999, the City of
Cleveland entered into a contract
with Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc.,
DBA Buckeye Volvo Trucks, for the
purchase of an estimated quantity
of 6 x 6 cab/chassis with dump body
and plow for a total amount of
$349,992.00, City Contract No. 55855;
and
Whereas, Omnicor Truck Centers,
Inc., DBA Buckeye Volvo Trucks
has, by letter dated August 1, 2001,
requested the consent of the City to
assignment of the warranty service
obligations of said City Contract No.
55855 to Aber’s Truck Center and
Aber’s Truck Center has, by its letter dated June 18, 2001, stated its
intention to undertake the warranty
service
obligations
of
Omnicor
Truck Centers, Inc., DBA Buckeye
Volvo Trucks under said contract;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the August 1, 2001 request of Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., DBA Buckeye Volvo Trucks, for consent of the
City to assignment of warranty service obligations under Contract No.
55855 for an estimated quantity of 6
x 6 cab/chassis with dump body and
plow to Aber’s Truck Center is hereby approved.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to execute any document
necessary and appropriate to effect
the consent to such assignment. A
copy of the assignment shall be
filed in the office of the Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 551-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Vandra Brothers Construction,
Inc.
for
the
public
improvement of rehabilitation of
West 110th Street from Western
Avenue to Berea Road, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service,
received on August 2, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
835-2000, passed June, 19, 2000, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of One Million Four Hundred Ninety-Three
Thousand Three Hundred ThirtyNine,
and
64/100
Dollars
($1,493,339.64), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the aforementioned public improvement is hereby
approved:

2036

August 22, 2001
McTech DBA Tech Ready Mix
5000 Crayton Ave.
P.O. Box 5270
Cleveland, OH 44101
(MBE) — $169,000.00 — (12%)
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool
5340 Perkins Rd.
Cleveland, OH 44146
(FBE) — $34,000.00 — (3%)
The Collinwood Shale &
Brick Supply Co.
12400 Broadway Avenue
Cleveland, OH 44125
(FBE) — $40,000.00 — (3%)
Cook Paving
11360 Brookpark Road
Cleveland, OH 44130
(MBE) — $9,200.00 — (1%)
Granger Trucking
8001 Old Granger Road
Cleveland, OH 44125
(MBE) — $43,000.00 — (3%)
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 552-01.
By Director Miller.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2103-98, passed by the Cleveland
City Council on December 14, 1998
and Resolution Nos. 35-01 and 66-01,
adopted by this Board of Control on
January 17, 2001 and January 31,
2001, respectively, the City entered
into Contract No. 57921 with Executive Caterers, Inc. to operate the
food and beverage services concession at the Cleveland Convention
Center; and
Whereas, Executive Caterers, Inc.
has requested the City’s consent to
the assignment of said Contract No.
57921 to Executive Caterers at Landerhaven, Inc.; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the request of Executive Caterers,
Inc. for the consent of the City to
the assignment of Contract No. 57921
between the City and Executive
Caterers, Inc. to Executive Caterers
at
Landerhaven,
Inc.
is
hereby
granted.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby authorized to
execute all documents and do all
things necessary to effect the consent to assign hereby granted.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 553-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on May 30, 2001 for
elevator maintenance at City Hall
for the Division of Property Management,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties, pursuant

August 22, 2001
to the authority of Ordinance No.
297-01, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 9, 2001,
be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 554-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76, passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
109-15-131
located
at
10817
Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Robert Grant, Sr., abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Codes; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby authorized to execute an
Official Deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Robert
Grant, Sr. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10915-131
located
at
10817
Massie
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said Program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Stephens,
Directors Konicek, Sheperd, Acting
Director Johnson, Directors Whitlow, Guzman, Acting Director Cox,
Directors Hudecek, Patterson, Acting Director Huth and Director
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2001
The schedule of the Board of Zoning Appeals for the meeting of
Tuesday, September 4, 2001 will
appear in the August 25, 2001 issue
of The City Record.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 20, 2001
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, August
20, 2001, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-170:
2713 Saratoga
Avenue
Mark Degan, owner, appealed to
install 90 linear feet of 6' high wood
privacy fencing on a 57' x 123' parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-171: 4601 West 148th
Street
Johnny Millsaps, owner, appealed
to construct a 7' x 8' front porch
deck to a one family dwelling in a
One-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-173: 4427 Franklin
Boulevard
St.
Paul’s
Community
Church,
owner c/o Reverend James Link,
appealed to add 240 sq. ft. for class-

2037

101
room expansion in the church in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-174: 3235 West 86th
Street
Mario Martinez, owner, appealed
to install 65 linear feet of 6' high
wood privacy fencing on a 38' x
131' parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-175: 3332 West 59th
Place
Cedina Straka, owner, appealed to
install 32 linear feet of 4' high
chain link fencing and 36 linear feet
of 6' high wood privacy fencing on
a 36' x 76' parcel in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 01-189: 1400 West 3rd
Street
David
Kirschenbaum,
owner,
appealed
to
demolish
a
2-story
masonry building and construct a
112 space public parking facility in
a Limited Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 01-209: 1900 Euclid
Avenue
1900 Euclid LLC, owner c/o Sandvick Architects, agent, appealed to
change the use of a 162' x 167'
connected
8-story
and
2-story
masonry restaurant, retail sales
and office building into 80 residential units, a restaurant and
retail sales in a General Retail
Business District.
The
following
Denied:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 01-172: 17002 Laverne
Avenue
Rodney and Susan Torres, owners,
appealed to construct a 30' x 30'
garage with a second floor to the
rear of a 40' x 160' parcel in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 01-176: 3375 West 117th
Street
George Bodkin, owner, appealed
to
display
merchandise
in
the
required front yard setback in a
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar
No.
01-147:
Appeal
of
Robert Madden d.b.a. K&M Towing & Automotive
Robert Madden, owner, appealed
from the disapproval of an application for a Motor Vehicles Repair
Garage License at 13011 Bellaire
Road.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 01-144: 13530 Miles
Avenue
Marvin Butler, owner, appealed to
convert a 38' x 48' one-story building into an auto repair shop and
storage for used auto parts in the
building and storage of vehicles on
the premises in a Semi-Industry District.
On Monday, August 20, 2001, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, August 13, 2001, and
said decisions were approved and
adopted by the Board on August 20,
2001:

The City Record

102
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-149: 4550 West 174th
Street
Ronald Smee, owner, appealed to
install 120 linear feet of 6' high
wooden
privacy
fencing
to
the
south, east and west of a 58' x 115'
parcel in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-165: 3153 West 14th
Street
Scott Rosenstein, owner, appealed
to install 94 linear feet of 6' high
wooden privacy fencing to the north
and east with gate to the west of a
40' x 86' parcel in a Multi-Family
District.
Calendar No. 01-166: 9503 Denison
Avenue
Zorka Miskovic, owner, appealed
to establish use of a one-story building into a church in a Local Retail
Business District.
The following appeal was held for
Rehearing upon the Motion filed by
the Acting Director of City Planing:
Calendar No. 01-153: 5021 Pearl Road
Don Petruzzi, owner d.b.a. Don’s
Chevrolet, appealed to install a 56'
high pole with a 640 sq. ft. illuminated cabinet sign in a General
Retail Business District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
August 15, 2001
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-76-01.
RE: Appeal of Anis Daher, owner
of the Property, located on the
premises known as 4650 Payne
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated April 3, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-76-01 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*

*

*

Docket A-77-01.
RE: Appeal of CWC Industries,
Inc., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 2686 Lisbon Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire dated March
13, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).

Docket A-77-01
PONED;
to
be
August 29, 2001.
*

has been POSTrescheduled
for
*

*

Docket A-78-01.
RE: Appeal of Lewis G. Robinson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Unit
Two & One/half Story Frame Residential Property located on the
premises known as 11703 Oakview
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR & GENERAL
MAINTENANCE dated April 10, 2001
of the Commissioner of the Division
of Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for a
sixty (60) day extension of time and
to REMAND the property at 11703
Oakview Avenue to the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-82-01.
RE: Appeal of Dean Salivaras
(Mirage On The Water Inc.), Owner
of the One Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
2510 Elm Street from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION/ELECTRICAL/UNSAFE
CONDITIONS/PLUMBING
of
the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated March
12, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s request for use of the
second floor space for anything
other than storage; to permit the
railings to exist as they are in view
of storage on the second floor space;
and to REMAND the property to the
Division of Building and Housing
for working out a solution for the
blocking of the stage space in accordance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland based on
smoke detection. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-88-01.
RE: Appeal of West Ninth Street
Partners, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
1281 West 9th Street from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE of the
Chief of the Division of Fire, dated
April 25, 2001, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) months in which
to abate all the violations on the
property, the property is REMANDED at this time to the Division of

2038

August 22, 2001
Fire
for
supervision
and
any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-89-01.
RE: Appeal of Liberty Savings
Bank, FSB, Mortgagee of the One
Dwelling Unit One & One/half Story
Frame Residential Property located
on the premises known as 3620 East
74th Street from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MS
&
GARAGE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated March 26, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for an
extension of time and to REMAND
the property at 3620 East 74th Street
to the Division of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Williams and
seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-93-01.
RE: Appeal of Bank of Yorba
Linda,
Mortgagee
of
the
One
Dwelling Unit Two Story Frame
Residential Property located on the
premises known as 3835 West 39th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—GARAGE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing, dated February 10,
2001, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for an
extension of time and to REMAND
the property at 3835 West 39th
Street to the Division of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-95-01.
RE:
Appeal
of
Victoria
Carr,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Two & One/half Story, Frame Residential Property located on the
premises known 1546 East 45th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE
& HOUSE PAINTING of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated May 18,
2001, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant
three
(3)
months
in
which to complete abatement of the
violations; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Division of

The City Record

August 22, 2001
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-125-01.
RE: Appeal of Demetrious D.
Davis, Owner of the One Story
Frame Commercial Property located
on the premises known as 6602 Superior Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION—ILLEGAL USE of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated July
16, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
The Board will take no action this
date, pending any further appeals
after the case is heard by the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-128-01.
RE: Appeal of Franklin Boulevard
Nursing Home Owner of the Nursing
Home
located
on
the
premises
known as 3600 Franklin Boulevard
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated June 2,
2001, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-128-01 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for September 12, 2001.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-42-01—1078 Old River Road, Ltd.
A-43-01—1078 Old River Road, Ltd.
A-44-01—George
Khouri
Family
Ltd. Partnership.
A-119-01—Terry Barbu.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets, respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-70-01—Russell Stewart.
A-103-01—US Tommy.
A-115-01—Cleveland Botanical Garden.
A-123-01—1078 Old River Road,
Ltd.

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets, respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-120-01—Dave Hunsinker.
A-121-01—Drew Smith.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF
AMENDED RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
Docket A-112-01.
Jimmie L. Richard — 7901 St.
Clair Avenue:
FROM: . . . modify the Commissioner’s
30
DAY
VACATE
ORDER/30 DAY DETERIORATED
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MS/ILLEGAL CONVERSION and LETTER
OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by
granting the Appellant three (3)
months in which to present plans to
the Building Department to gain
approval to obtain permits for abatement of the violations; the property
can be used on the first floor only
with the following conditions: the
exiting for the second means of
egress shall be defined by adequate
battery pack emergency lighting
and a barrier conducting only to the
rear door, a maximum occupancy of
forty (40) people, no cooking until
approved by the inspector; the front
portion of the building shall be used
only, no storage of combustibles in
the basement, and the second floor
shall be sealed off. Upon passage of
this motion, this matter shall be
REMANDED at this time to the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. All other provisions of the 30
DAY
VACATE
ORDER/30
DAY
DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MS/ILLEGAL
CONVERSION and LETTER OF INTENTION
TO DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions
that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
November 15, 2001 . . .
TO: . . . modify the Commissioner’s 30 DAY VACATE ORDER/30
DAY DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MS/ILLEGAL
CONVERSION
and
LETTER
OF
INTENTION
TO
DEMOLISH
by
granting the Appellant three (3)
months in which to present plans to

2039

103
the Building Department to gain
approval to obtain permits for abatement of the violations; the property
can be used on the first floor only
with the following conditions: the
exiting for the second means of
egress shall be defined by adequate
battery pack emergency lighting
and a temporary corridor/barrier
conducting only to the rear door, a
maximum occupancy of forty (40)
people, no cooking until approved
by the inspector; the front portion of
the building shall be used only, no
storage of combustibles in the basement, and the second floor shall be
sealed off. Upon passage of this
motion,
this
matter
shall
be
REMANDED at this time to the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. All other provisions of the 30
DAY VACATE & DETERIORATED
CONDEMNATION
ORDERS—
MS/ILLEGAL
CONVERSION
and
LETTER
OF
INTENTION
TO
DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions
that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
November 15, 2001. . .
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan, for Approval and Adoption
of the Amended Resolutions as presented by the Secretary for the following Dockets, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
Docket A-116-01.
Howell Building L.L.D. — 921
Huron Road:
FROM: . . . to grant the variance
to the required 75 feet travel distance and permit the travel distance
to be 81 feet; and to permit the roof
deck to be occupied by no more than
six (6) people with posted signs . . .
TO: . . . to grant the variance to
the required 75 feet travel distance
and permit the travel distance to be
81 feet; and that the maximum
occupancy of the second floor and
the roof deck will not exceed thirty
(30) people with posted signs . . .
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Saunders, for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC):
August 1, 2001
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The City Record

104
PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2001
Jacobsen Mower Parts, for the various divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance 489-01.
Exterminating
Services
(Re-Bid),
for the various divisions of City
Government, Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance
620-01, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 19,
2001.
THERE IS A PRE-BID MEETING
ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 21, 2001
AT 3:00 P.M., ROOM 104, CITY
HALL.
Lumber and Supplies, for the various divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance 491-01, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING
ON
TUESDAY,
AUGUST 21, 2001 AT 3:00 P.M., ROOM
104, CITY HALL.
August 15, 2001 and August 22, 2001

THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2001
Harvard Yards Services Facility
Roof Replacement and Renovation, for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service.
THERE IS A (50.00) NON-REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT IN THE FORM
OF A CASHIER’S CHECK AND
OR MONEY ORDER THAT WILL
BE REQUIRED AT THE TIME
OF PICK UP. BIDDERS WHO
ALREADY HAVE PLANS DO NOT
HAVE TO OBTAIN ANOTHER
SET.
One (1) GCMS (Gas Chromatograph
Mass Selective), for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1656-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 14, 1999.
August 15, 2001 and August 22, 2001
FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2001
Two (2) Cab/Chassis with Flat
Bed Dump Body, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
1264-01, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 19,
2001.
Ammunition, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Section 135.65
of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
Sodium Hypochlorite Solution, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976.
August 15, 2001 and August 22, 2001
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2001
One (1) Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting-ARFF-Vehicle,
for
the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 1685-2000 and 99-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, October 30, 2000 and January
25, 2001, respectively.
Three (3) Cab/Chassis with Ambulance Module, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 126401, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 19, 2001.
Purchase of Various Supplies, for
the
Division
of
Streets,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 126301.
August 15, 2001 and August 22, 2001
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2001
Urban Forest Property Maintenance,
for the Division of Park Maintenance & Properties, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
300-01, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 30,
2001.

2040

August 22, 2001
One (1) Roll-Off Hoist, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1264-01, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 19,
2001.
Two (2) Trailer-Mounted 6" Water
Pump, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1264-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 19, 2001.
One (1) Autosampler, for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1656-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 19, 1999.
August 15, 2001 and August 22, 2001
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2001
Three (3) 8,000 Pounds of Capacity
Lift Trucks, One (1) 12,000 Pounds
Capacity Lift Truck, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1264-01, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 19,
2001.
Purchase of Ball Diamond Clay, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
&
Properties,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
547-01, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 9,
2001.
De-Icing Agent, for the Division of
Park Maintenance & Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 548-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 30, 2001.
Cleveland Flight Guide Project (1)
Airline Flight Schedule Data, (2)
Layout,
Typesetting,
Printing,
Finishing and Delivery, (3) Mailing Services, for the Department
of Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1336-01.
August 15, 2001 and August 22, 2001
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2001
Halloran Park Aquatic Playground
and Site Improvements, for the
Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 7901 and 1077-01.
A DEPOSIT OF TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF
THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2001
Vehicle Exhaust Ventilation System, for Cleveland Public Power
East Side Service Center, for the

August 22, 2001
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
authorized
by
Ordinance No. 843-01, passed by Council of the City of Cleveland, June
11, 2001.
THERE IS A MANDATORY PREBID MEETING 10:00 A.M., TUESDAY,
AUGUST
28,
2001
AT
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
LOCATED AT EAST SIDE SERVICE CENTER, REAR 743 EAST
140TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2001
Lamps, for the Various Divisions of
City Government, Department of
Finance, authorized by Ordinance
No. 1062-01, passed by Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 19,
2001.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING ON MONDAY, AUGUST
27, 2001, 10:00 A.M., ROOM 104 IN
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
Hand Held Tools, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 743-01,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 11, 2001.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING
ON
TUESDAY,
AUGUST 28, 2001, 11:00 A.M., ROOM
104 IN CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2001
Used Bricks, for the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, authorized by
Ordinance No. 745-01, passed by
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 11, 2001.
Reproduction and Mounting, for the
Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 65501, passed by Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 17, 2001.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING
ON
TUESDAY,
AUGUST 28, 2001, 3:00 P.M., ROOM
104 IN CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO.
Crane Carrier, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 36301, passed by Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 19, 2001.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2001
Express Mail Service, for the Various Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1059-01,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 19, 2001.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
4,
2001,
10:00
A.M.,
ROOM 104 IN CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO.

The City Record
Furniture, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 10052000, passed by Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 17, 2000.
Anti-Freeze, for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 38101, passed by Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
The Purchase of Labor and Materials Needed for the Repair/Replacement of Fencing, for the
Division of Park Maintenance and
Properties, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 54501, passed by Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 21, 2001.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2001
Diesel Fuel, for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 20232000, passed by Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 18, 2000.
Purchase of Computers, for the Various Divisions of the Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1198-2000, passed by
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 7, 2001.
Two (2) Cab/Chassis with Snow
Blower
Removal
Equipment.
Request Number: 30517-36E.
Three (3) Cab/Chassis with Snow
Blower. Request Number: 3051742E, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1264-01, passed by
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 19, 2001.
One (1) Payment Processor Envelope Extractor Machine, for the
Division of Utilities, Fiscal Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1049-01, passed by Council of
the City of Cleveland, July 18,
2001.

105
POINTS, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135
(LOCATED AT THE S.E. CORNER OF CARGO RD. AND FIVE
POINTS RD).
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT OF $375.00 THAT
WILL BE REQUIRED IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 939-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate a portion of
Conn Court N.W.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Conn Court N.W. as hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and described as being all that
portion of Conn Court N.W. (20.00
feet wide), extending Easterly from
the Westerly line of West 25th
Street (104.00 feet wide) to its Easterly terminus.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2001
High Voltage Switching Equipment,
for the Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE IS A MANDATORY PREBID MEETING 10:00 A.M., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 IN
THE
TRAINING
ROOM
AT
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
LOCATED AT 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
August 22, 2001 and August 29, 2001
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2001
FAATracon Renovation Project, for
the Department of Port Control.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING ON THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2001, 10:00 A.M. AND
12:00 P.M. AT THE PROGRAM
MANAGEMENT TEAM (PMT) CONFERENCE ROOM,
19501
FIVE

2041

Res. No. 1576-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 12208 Bellaire Rd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

106
ing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0598188, owned by Bellaire Beverage, DBA Bellaire Beverage, 12208 Bellaire Rd., Cleveland,
Ohio 44135 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1577-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 8214 Cedar Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renew-

The City Record
al of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9737130, owned by Wolfs Den Corp.,
DBA Wolfs Den, 8214 Cedar Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1578-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 8301 Cedar
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 91232720002, owned
by 2758 East 79th Café Inc., DBA
Bee Hive Café, 8301 Cedar Avenue,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.

2042

August 22, 2001
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1579-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2068613, owned by Devious McDade,
DBA DE & TS Maxwell, 8302 Cedar
Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44103 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based

August 22, 2001
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1580-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 8624 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0299723, owned by Asma
Yusuf, Inc., 8624 Cedar Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

The City Record
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1581-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 10812 Cedar Ave.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
089835654157, owned by BP Exploration & Oil Inc., DBA Site 54157,
10812 Cedar Ave., Cleveland, Ohio
44106 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2043

107
Res. No. 1582-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 9308 Chester
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 84910459308, owned by
Standard Oil Co., DBA BP Food Mart
04230, 9308 Chester Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1583-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1930 East 79th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

108
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1302675, owned by Cascian Corp., Inc., DBA Quik Pik Market, 1930 East 79th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1584-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2220 East 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

The City Record
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9122348, owned by 2220
East 105th Inc., DBA Cross Town
Food Market, 2220 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1585-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2249 E. 105th St.,
1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

2044

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7644062, owned by Jerry
SAA, DBA PNG Supermarket, 2249 E.
105th St. 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44106 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1586-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11543-45 Mt. Carmel
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

August 22, 2001
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8303228, owned by Oscar
G. Smith, Jr., DBA Mountain Top
Grocery, 11543-45 Mt. Carmel Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1587-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 8329 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1129803, owned by Burton
Enterprises Inc., DBA First Page
Lounge, 8329 Quincy Avenue, Cleve-

The City Record
land, Ohio 44104 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1588-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 8502 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
36356500005, owned by Harry John
Inc., 8502 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44106 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

2045

109
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1589-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9209 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6416769, owned by 9209
Quincy Inc., DBA Sammor Corners,
9209 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.

110
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1590-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of East 51st Place.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 51st Place as hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
East 51st Place (30.00 feet wide),
extending Southerly from that portion of East 51st Place vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance Number 1758-53, passed
June 29, 1953, to its Southerly terminus.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1591-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 620 Frankfort Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2289880, owned by Down
River Specialties Inc., 620 Frankfort
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1592-01.
By Councilman Cimperman
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer
of ownership and location of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 1281 West 9th Street, and repealing Res. No. 1418-01 objecting to
said transfer of ownership and
location.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership and location of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to 1281 West 9th
Street by Res. No. 1418-01 adopted by
Council July 18, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and location
and consents to said transfer of
ownership and location; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership and location
of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1281 West 9th Street, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 1418-01, containing
said objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Coun-

2046

August 22, 2001
cil consents to the immediate transfer of ownership and location thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1593-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 14643 Coit Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 50434590001, owned by
Joel Latimore, DBA Coit Road Beverage, 14643 Coit Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110 and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

August 22, 2001
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1594-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D4 Liquor
Permit at 527 East 140th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D4 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
92623552926, owned by VFW Post
2926 Collinwood, 527 East 140th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Res. No. 1595-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 662 East 140th
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
5439362,
owned
by
Maisam Corp, DBA Four M Food
Market, 662 East 140th Street, 1st
Fl.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44110
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1596-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 625 East 140th
Street, 1st Fl.

2047

111
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6081178, owned by Moes
Stop One Inc., 625 East 140th Street,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1597-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 831 East 140th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)

112
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3700511, owned by Sabrina A. Head,
DBA East 140th Food & Beverage,
831 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1598-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1030 East 152nd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and

The City Record
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1745954, owned by John
L. Cornelius, 1030 East 152nd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1599-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 18121 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of

2048

August 22, 2001
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1709358, owned by
Convenient Food Mart Inc., DBA
Convenient
Food,
18121
Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1600-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 12730 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Per-

August 22, 2001
mit, Permit No. 26001810001, owned
by F & A Beverage, 12730 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1601-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 13001 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8930790, owned by Tiggs Bar &
Restaurant Inc., 13001 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44108
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1602-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 14102-06 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2655243, owned by Fast
& Friendly, Inc., 14102-06 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44110 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the

2049

113
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1603-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 12901 Shaw
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6310018, owned by
Nasser Inc., 12901 Shaw Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.

114
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1604-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 2139 Broadview Rd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1896770, owned by Dalaps Group
Inc., DBA Last Chance, 2139 Broadview Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1605-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3829 Denison Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 2916712, owned
by Frenchies Escape Lounge Inc.,
3829 Denison Avenue, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2050

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1606-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3912
Archwood, 1st Fl., and repealing
Res. No. 1445-2000 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 3912 Archwood, 1st Fl. by
Res. No. 1445-2000 adopted by Council on August 7, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3912 Archwood, 1st Fl., be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 1445-2000, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1607-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9901-03 Union
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2599989, owned by Fadis

August 22, 2001
Market Inc., 9901-03 Union Avenue,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1608-01.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 4360 Lee Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5088723, owned by Lee Miles Service
Inc., DBA Lee-Miles Citgo, 4360 Lee
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

The City Record
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1609-01.
By Councilman Jones (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Velma Avenue S.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Velma Avenue as hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
Velma Avenue S.E. (25.00 feet wide),
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of East 141st Street (50.00
feet wide), to the Westerly line of
East 142nd Street (50.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1610-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a Liquor Permit at 1905 East 55th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

2051

115
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 00239900005, owned by
Abeco Ayad Inc., DBA Grandpas
Kitchen,
1905
East
55th
Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1611-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1136 East 79th Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

116
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8601226, owned by Malissie Stokes,
DBA Grocery Deli, 1136 East 79th
Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1612-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1144 East 71st Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor per-

The City Record
mits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2586684, owned by Vernadette M.
Evans, DBA Big Momma Deli, 1144
East 71st Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44103 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1613-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 7001 Hough Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7658201, owned by Sabrina Inc., DBA Kwik Shop, 7001

2052

August 22, 2001
Hough
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44103 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1614-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7102 Hough Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8681813, owned by
Sulaiman Inc., 7102 Hough Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

August 22, 2001
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1615-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 8802-06 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2455399, owned by
8802 Superior Hawk Inc., DBA Superior Food Market, 8802-06 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44101 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of divi-

The City Record
sion (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1616-01.
By Councilman Lewis (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of Addison Place and East 72nd
Street.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
portions of Addison Place and East
72nd Street as hereinafter described;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
Addison
Place
(width
varies),
between East 72nd Street (65.00 feet
wide) and Wade Park Avenue (70.00
feet wide).
and
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
East 72nd Street (65.00 feet wide)
between Wade Park Avenue (70.00
feet wide) and Dellenbaugh Avenue
(50.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1617-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
5910
Detroit
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

2053

117
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 91255550005, owned by
Two N. Inc., DBA Convenient Foods,
5910 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1618-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 7310 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

118
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0345134, owned by AZIZ Corp., DBA
West 73rd Shell, 7310 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1619-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 6104 Storer Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0569335, owned by Bee Hive Tavern
Inc., DBA Bee Hive Tavern, 6104
Storer Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1620-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 863-71 East 93rd
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7702571, owned by Samia
Inc., DBA Convenience Deli, 863-71
East 93rd Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44108 and requests the Director

2054

August 22, 2001
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1621-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1250 East 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; arid
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
7809310,
owned
by
Scheherazade Foods Inc., DBA Midtown Savmor, 1250 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

August 22, 2001
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1622-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 970 Lakeview Rd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; arid
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
6234793,
owned
by
Karimeh A. Muntaser, DBA Lakeview Superette, 970 Lakeview Rd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1623-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 974-78 Parkwood, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
0037309,
owned
by
Shahrazan Abuzahrieh, DBA Sunshine Food Market, 974-78 Parkwood, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44108
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

2055

119
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1624-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 9021 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6417910, owned by 91st
Sorp., 9021 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

120
Res. No. 1625-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 231 East 156th Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0142108, owned by Alojz Znidarsic
Inc., DBA Glen Cove Pub, 231 East
156th Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44110 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1626-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 397 E.
156th St., 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5819446,
owned by Melbourne Men-Business,
DBA Café Bluebird, 397 E. 156th St.,
1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1627-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 910 East 185th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

2056

August 22, 2001
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
56036170115, owned by Mascot Petroleum Co. Inc., DBA Sunoco Sunmart,
910 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44119 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1628-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6
Liquor
Permit
at
15428
Lakeshore Blvd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6700191, owned by
Park CFM Inc., DBA Convenient
Foods, 15428 Lakeshore Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1629-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 17318 Lakeshore
Blvd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no

The City Record
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 51799020005, owned by
Lez, Inc., DBA Convenient Express,
17318 Lakeshore Blvd., Cleveland,
Ohio 44119 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1630-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 15521 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1709285, owned by Convenient Food Mart Inc., DBA Conve-

2057

121
nient Food, 15521 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1631-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 17910
Lakeshore Blvd.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1165352,
owned by C & CS Corner Tavern,
DBA
Time
Out
Grill,
17910
Lakeshore Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio
44119 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

122
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1632-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 747 East 185th Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3983152, owned by Horseshoe Booze
& Food, Inc., 747 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds with-

The City Record
in the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1633-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit to 568 East 185th Street, and
repealing Res. No. 962-01 objecting
to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1
and D2 Liquor Permit to 568 East
185th Street by Res. No. 962-01 adopted by Council on May 21, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership based
upon and pursuant to a cooperation
agreement signed August 1, 2001, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1 and
D2 Liquor Permit to 568 East 185th
Street, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 962-01, containing said objection, be and the
same if hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1634-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 15601 Waterloo Rd., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., and repealing Res. No. 14552000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to 15601
Waterloo Rd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt. by
Res. No. 1455-2000 adopted by Council on August 7, 2000; and

2058

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
signed
August 9, 2001, a copy of which is
in the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to 15601 Waterloo
Rd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1455-2000, containing said objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1635-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council business cards and note
pads for a period of two years and
authorizing the Clerk of Council to
enter into a requirement contract for
the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Brothers Printing Co. for Council business cards
and note pads for the Clerk of Council for a period of two years is the
lowest and best bid received after
advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No. 388-01, passed
March 5, 2001, and the Clerk of
Council be and she hereby is authorized to enter into a requirement
contract with Brothers Printing Co.
for such services in accordance with
specifications upon which said bid
was received. The cost of said contract shall be payable out of funds
appropriated for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1636-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council ward mailing services for a
period of two years and authorizing
the Clerk of Council to enter into a
requirement contract for the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Cleveland Letter Service for Council ward mailing
services for the Clerk of Council for
a period of two years is the lowest
and best bid received after advertising in accordance with Section
108 of the City Charter, pursuant to
Ordinance No. 387-01, passed March
5, 2001, and the Clerk of Council be
and she hereby is authorized to
enter into a requirement contract
with Cleveland Letter Service for
such services in accordance with
specifications upon which said bid
was received. The cost of said contract shall be payable out of funds
appropriated for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1637-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council printing services for ward
mailings for a period of two years
and authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into a requirement contract for the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Legal News
Publishing Company for printing
services for ward mailings for the
Clerk of Council for a period of two
years is the lowest and best bid
received after advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City
Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No.
625-01, passed April 2, 2001, and the
Clerk of Council be and she hereby
is authorized to enter into a requirement contract with Legal News Publishing Company for such services
in accordance with specifications
upon which said bid was received.
The cost of said contract shall be
payable out of funds appropriated
for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1638-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
expedited printing services for ward
mailings for a period of two years
and authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter a requirement contract
for the same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Orange Blossom Press for expedited printing
services for ward mailings for the
Clerk of Council for a period of two
years is the lowest and best bid
received after advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City
Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No.
625-01, passed April 2, 2001, and the
Clerk of Council be and she hereby
is authorized to enter into a requirement contract with Orange Blossom
Press for such services in accordance
with
specifications
upon
which said bid was received. The
cost
of
said
contract
shall
be
payable out of funds appropriated
for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1639-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution determining the lowest and best bid for
Council letterhead and envelopes for
a period of two years and authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a requirement contract for the
same.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the bid of Orange Blossom Press for Council letterhead
and envelopes for the Clerk of Council for a period of two years is the
lowest and best bid received after
advertising in accordance with Section 108 of the City Charter, pursuant to Ordinance No. 388-01, passed
March 5, 2001, and the Clerk of
Council be and she hereby is authorized to enter into a requirement
contract with Orange Blossom Press
for such services in accordance with

2059

123
specifications upon which said bid
was received. The cost of said contract shall be payable out of funds
appropriated for Council.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1640-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron
and Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the closing by Dominion East
Ohio Gas Company of its Payment
and Billing Explanation Center in
Downtown Cleveland, and requesting that the Company reconsider its
decision.
Whereas, Dominion East Ohio Gas
Company has announced the closing
of its last two Payment and Billing
Explanation Centers, including one
located in Downtown Cleveland as
of September 8, 2001, and
Whereas,
72,000
customers
of
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company
depend upon these walk-in Payment
and Billing Explanation Centers,
which provide customers with the
immediate ability to, among other
things, have questions answered,
schedule
investigations
and
rereads, and have gas turned on or
off, and
Whereas, without a walk-in Payment and Billing Explanation Center, customers will be limited to
unreliable call-in centers to have
questions and problems handled,
and such centers often fail to provide proper accessibility and service
to consumers; and
Whereas, for making payments
customers will have to pay up to
$1.00 per transaction to process payments at a store, bank or other business
that
has
contracted
with
Dominion East Ohio to handle such
transactions; and more than a third
of such centers accept cash only;
and
Whereas, the need for personal
contact with representatives of the
gas company has greatly increased
with the advent in October of 2000
of the gas choice program, which
has created confusion and concern
among consumers, and with the
huge increases in rates, causing
many customers to incur delinquencies and require assistance to establish payment arrangements in order
to maintain service; and
Whereas, the closing of Dominion
East Ohio’s Payment and Billing
Explanation Center in Cleveland
would be a blatant attack on consumers in order to save the Company money as it seeks to compete
with gas marketers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland objects to the clos-

124
ing of the Dominion East Ohio Gas
Company
Payment
and
Billing
Explanation Center in Downtown
Cleveland, and urges Dominion East
Ohio to reconsider the closing in
order to adequately serve the needs
of the poor, elderly, and most vulnerable residents of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution the
Chairman of the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio and to Dominion East Ohio Gas Company.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1641-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3616 East 131st Street, 1st
Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4182903, owned by JRDT Ltd, DBA
M & M Lounge, 3616 East 131st
Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44120
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Direc-

The City Record
tor’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1642-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3976 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit based
upon
legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4069363, owned by Lebyron Humphrey, DBA Big Forty, 3976
East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

2060

August 22, 2001
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1643-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3744 East 144th
Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8916789, owned by 3744
East 144th Inc., DBA F & A Food
Market, 3744 East 144th Street, 1st
Fl.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44120
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001
Res. No. 1644-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 13401 Kinsman Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0296859, owned by Ashishi Inc., DBA
Ranie Food Market, 13401 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1645-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 14510 Kinsman Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the trans-

The City Record
fer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 6072057, Mo &
Son Inc., 14510 Kinsman Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44120 to Permit No.
7682209, Muaad Salem, DBA Kinsman Sunoci, 14510 Kinsman Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 6072057, Mo &
Son Inc., 14510 Kinsman Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44120 to Permit No.
7682209, Muaad Salem, DBA Kinsman Sunoci, 14510 Kinsman Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2061

125
Res. No. 1646-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution
objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 7663
Broadway Avenue, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8360320, owned
by Soldat Enterprises Inc., DBA
Lefty’s, 7663 Broadway Avenue, 1st
Fl.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1647-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3071 East
65th Street, 1st Fl.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

126
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4199709, owned
by James Jackson, DBA Vince’s
Café, 3071 East 65th Street, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1648-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 4792 Rocky
River Drive.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal

The City Record
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0083167, owned by
Airport Deli Inc., DBA Airport Deli,
4792 Rocky River Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1649-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 10025
Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of
a
permit
based
upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a

2062

August 22, 2001
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8200099,
owned by Sixty Nine Inc., 10025
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1650-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 13197-201 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8434110, owned by Three Spink, Inc.,
13197-201 Miles Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1651-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 4563
Warner Road, and repealing Res.
No.
1544-2000
objecting
to
said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to 4563 Warner Road by Res.
No. 1544-2000 adopted by Council
August 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 4563 Warner Road, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Res.
No. 1544-2000, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.

The City Record
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1652-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 10509 Ashbury
Avenue
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6548639, owned by 10509 Ashbury Inc., DBA First Choice Beverage, 10509 Ashbury Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

2063

127
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1653-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 11625 Superior Ave.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1944364, owned by Dave’s
Drive Thru Inc., 11625 Superior Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, the objection is based
upon substantial legal grounds within the meaning and intent of division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

128
Ord. No. 1125-99.
By Councilmen Patmon, Jackson,
Robinson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 10004-06 South Boulevard to Famicos Foundation or
designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 109-08-127
and
109-08-128,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Famicos Foundation or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 109-08-127
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
125 in the Superior Park Subdivision
No. 2 of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 376 and 377, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 37 of
Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of South Boulevard, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 120 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 109-08-128
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
126 in B. Schatzinger’s Superior
Park Subdivision No. 2 of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 376 and 377, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 37 of Maps,
Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of South Boulevard,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 120 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of

The City Record
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 168-A-01. (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 168-01).
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds in
the principal amount not to exceed
$4,500,000 for the purpose of acquiring property for Urban Renewal Project Activities; authorizing the purchase of certain properties for that
purpose; and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, under Article XVIII of
the Ohio Constitution and Chapter
725 of the Ohio Revised Code (the
“Act”), the City has the power to
undertake and carry out urban
renewal projects pursuant to urban
renewal plans approved by the City
from time to time, and the City has
undertaken and carried out and
intends to undertake and carry out
urban renewal activities for the
elimination of blight and for the
prevention of the development and
spread of blight and deterioration
within its designated urban renewal areas; and
Whereas, the City has undertaken
a program for the clearance and
reconstruction
of
blighted
areas
within its boundaries and, in connection therewith, is engaged in carrying out the following development
projects: (a) the Erieview II Neighborhood Development Plan No. Ohio
A-8 (the “Erieview II Development
Plan”) in an area bounded generally on the north by Lakeside Avenue,
on the east by East 17th Street, on
the south by Superior Avenue, and
on the west by East 12th Street (the
“Erieview II Plan Area”) and (b)
the Erieview I Renewal Project No.
Ohio R-36 (the “Erieview I Development Plan”) in an area bounded
generally on the north by Lakeside
Avenue, on the east by East 14th
Street, on the south by Chester
Avenue and on the west by East 6th
Street (the “Erieview I Plan Area”),
which Erieview I Development Plan
and Erieview II Development Plan
(together the “Plans”) remain in
force and effect; and

2064

August 22, 2001
Whereas, the Council of the City,
by Ordinance Nos. 1634-73 and 242860, passed on April 8, 1974, and
December 12, 1960, respectively, as
amended from time to time, designated the Erieview II Plan Area and
the Erieview I Plan Area (collectively, the “Plan Areas”) as blighted areas and encouraged the redevelopment of certain parcels within
the Plan Areas in accordance with
the requirements of the Erieview II
Development Plan and the Erieview
I Development Plan (collectively,
the “Development Plans”) in order
to prevent the recurrence or spread
of conditions of blight; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1108-87, passed June 8, 1987, as
amended by Ordinance No. 3012-88,
passed February 6, 1989, and Ordinance No. 1374-91, passed June 17,
1991, and Ordinance No. 1713-91,
passed August 21, 1991, the Director
of Community Development entered
into certain agreements (the Agreements) with Jacobs, Visconsi &
Jacobs Co. and its assignees (the
Redeveloper), relating to the redevelopment of certain real property
in the Erieview I Plan Area and the
Erieview II Plan Area; and
Whereas,
the
Agreements,
as
amended, provide that in the event
of a default under the Agreements,
the City is entitled to repurchase
Parcels 22-A-2, 9-B, and the Additional Properties (collectively, the
“Properties”), as defined in and pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in the Agreements; and
Whereas, the City desires to exercise its rights to repurchase the
above-referenced Properties as provided in the Agreements; and
Whereas, pursuant to Article VIII,
Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution
and the Act, and particularly Section
725.05(C) of the Revised Code, the
City has determined to issue Urban
Renewal
Temporary
Bonds
(the
“Temporary Bonds”) in the principal
amount not to exceed $4,500,000, for
the purpose of paying costs of carrying out urban renewal project
activities in the Plan Areas in accordance with the Plans and the Act,
including without limitation, direct
and indirect costs of acquiring the
Properties, preparing the Properties
for redevelopment, title, appraisal,
planning, engineering and legal
costs related thereto, and paying
Financing Costs (as defined below)
related to issuing the Temporary
Bonds (the “Project”);
Whereas, it is necessary to issue
the Temporary Bonds herein authorized and to do so as soon as possible to take advantage of the opportunity to purchase the Properties in
the Plan Areas, and, as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health, and safety and for the
usual and daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance including
its preambles, unless the context or
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Book entry form” or “Book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (a) the ownership of
book entry interests in the Temporary Bonds and the principal of and
interest on the Temporary Bonds
may be transferred only through a

August 22, 2001
book entry, and (b) physical Bond
certificates in fully registered form
are issued only to a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository or its agent. The book
entry system is maintained by and
is the responsibility of the Depository and not the City or the Bond
Registrar. The book entry is the
record that identifies, and records
the transfer of the interests of, the
owners of beneficial (book entry)
interests in the Temporary Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Temporary Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 12, which, together
with the agreements of the City set
forth in that Section, shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the
Temporary Bonds in accordance
with the Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the Temporary Bonds.
“Debt Retirement Fund” means
the Urban Renewal Debt Retirement
Fund established pursuant to Section 10.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Temporary Bonds or the
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds, and to effect transfers of Temporary Bonds, in book
entry form, and includes and means
initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means Carmona Motley Hoffmann, Inc.
“Financing Costs” has the meaning provided in Section 133.01 of the
Revised Code.
“Nontax
Revenues”
means
all
moneys of the City which are not
moneys raised by taxation, to the
extent available for the purpose of
paying debt charges on the Temporary Bonds, including, but not limited to the following: (a) grants
from the United States of America
and the State; (b) payments in lieu
of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures which are deposited in the
City’s
General
Fund;
(d)
fees
deposited in the City’s General Fund
for services provided and from properly imposed licenses and permits;
(e) investment earnings on the
City’s General Fund; (f) investment
earnings on other funds of the City
that are credited to the City’s General Fund; (g) proceeds from the
sale of assets which are deposited
in the City’s General Fund; (h) gifts
and donations; and (i) all rental
payments which are deposited in the
City’s General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Temporary
Bonds: A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc. and
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp.

The City Record
“Proceedings” means, collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Continuing Disclosure
Certificate and such other proceedings of the City, including the Temporary Bonds, that provide collectively for, among other things, the
rights of holders and beneficial owners of the Temporary Bonds.
“Project Fund” means the Project
Fund established pursuant to Section 11.
“Revenues” means, to the extent
available to pay debt charges on the
Temporary
Bonds,
any
rentals
received under leases made by the
City with respect to the Project
properties, all proceeds from the
sale or other disposition of the Project
properties
and
any
urban
renewal service payments collected
from any of the Project properties.
“Rule” means SEC Rule 15c2-12.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Temporary Bonds” means the
Temporary Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
determines that (i) the Project is
consistent with the purposes of Section 13 of Article VIII of the Ohio
Constitution; (ii) the Project is in
furtherance of the purposes of the
Act and will benefit the people of
the City and of the State by creating and preserving jobs and employment opportunities and improving
the economic welfare of the people
of the City and of the State; and
(iii) it is necessary for the City to
issue the Temporary Bonds pursuant
to Section 13 of Article VIII of the
Ohio
Constitution
and
Section
725.05(C) of the Act in the principal
amount not to exceed of $4,500,000 to
pay costs of the Project.
Section 3. Terms of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance or
such other date as is designated in
the Certificate of Award. The Temporary Bonds shall mature on a date
to be determined by the Director of
Finance in the Certificate of Award
in accordance with her determination of the best interest of and
financial advantages to the City,
provided that such date shall not be
later than five years from the date
of issuance of the Temporary Bonds.
The Temporary Bonds shall bear
interest from their date at the rate
per annum set forth in the Certificate of Award, or if any Temporary
Bonds bear interest at a variable
rate, at the rate determined pursuant to the method set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Interest on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
on the dates determined by the
Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award and until the principal amount is paid or payment is
provided for. If any Temporary
Bonds bear interest at a fixed rate,
that rate shall not exceed eight percent (8%) per year (computed on
the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) and
interest shall be payable not more
often than every six months and at
maturity or at any earlier redemption date. If any Temporary Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate or
rates, those rates shall not exceed
that set forth below, and interest
shall be payable not more often
than once a month and following
purchase and at maturity or at any
earlier redemption date.

2065

129
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by causing all or a portion of the Temporary
Bonds to be obligations bearing
interest at variable rates, redeemable
by the City without penalty or premium on interest adjustment dates,
then the Director of Finance is
authorized to so specify in the Certificate of Award. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the
variable rate Temporary Bonds shall
be determined, whether by reference
to a market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that the
variable rate Temporary Bonds shall
not bear interest at a rate in excess
of twelve percent (12%) per annum.
That maximum interest rate shall
not apply to variable rate Temporary
Bonds during any period those Temporary Bonds are held by a provider
of
a
Credit Support
Instrument
because they could not be remarketed and the terms of the Credit Support Instrument do not permit such
a maximum rate of interest. Holders
of variable rate Temporary Bonds
may be given the right to tender
their variable rate Temporary Bonds
for purchase by the City at the times,
on the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in place
that provides for the payment of the
purchase price payable to the tendering holder of a variable rate Temporary Bond. If the Director of
Finance designates any Temporary
Bonds as variable rate Temporary
Bonds, and if the holders of the variable rate Temporary Bonds are to be
entitled to tender the variable rate
Temporary Bonds for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate in the Certificate of Award
for those variable rate Temporary
Bonds the provider or providers for
any Credit Support Instrument, the
tender agent or agents and the
remarketing agent or agents, which
designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance that the parties so designated possess the requisite resources
and experience to provide the services required of them and that the
terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of
the variable rate Temporary Bonds,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Temporary
Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments,
tender agents (which may be the
Registrar), remarketing agents, and
others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment
of
the
variable
rate Temporary
Bonds upon tender for purchase or
redemption, and providing for the
repayment by
the City of any
amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Temporary Bonds, and regard-

130
less of the Temporary Bonds bearing interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for a
Credit Support Instrument, and to
pay the costs of it from proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds, if she determines
that
the
Credit
Support
Instrument will result in a savings
in the cost of this financing to the
City.
Section
4.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Temporary Bonds.
The debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of
the United States of America as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award,
and shall be payable, without deduction for services of the Registrar as
the City’s paying agent. If agreed to
by the Original Purchaser, the Temporary Bonds shall be subject to
redemption without penalty or premium at the option of the City in
whole or in part at any time prior
to maturity as provided in this Ordinance.
If fewer than all of the Temporary Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Temporary Bonds of that maturity
to be redeemed, or portions thereof
in amounts of the minimum authorized denomination or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
lot in a manner determined by the
Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Temporary Bonds by
lot
when
Temporary
Bonds
of
denominations greater than the minimum authorized denomination are
then outstanding, each unit of principal thereof in the amount of the
minimum authorized denomination
shall be treated as if it were a separate Temporary Bond of the denomination of the minimum authorized
denomination. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all, of the
units of principal amount in the
amount of the minimum authorized
denomination represented by a Temporary Bonds are to be called for
redemption, then, upon notice of
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Temporary
Bond shall surrender the Temporary
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of such
unit or units of principal amount
called for redemption (including,
without
limitation,
the
interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner, of a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination or denominations in
an
aggregate
principal
amount
equal to the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as, the Temporary Bond surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Temporary Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers, or other distinguishing marks,
the Temporary Bonds or portions
thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Temporary Bond subject to

The City Record
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Register (as defined
in Section 5) maintained by the Registrar at the close of business on the
15th day preceding that mailing.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Temporary Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Temporary Bond.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Registrar to the registered owners
as provided above, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, moneys
that, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus accrued interest to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Temporary Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Temporary Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption
date, and, upon presentation and surrender thereof at the place or places
specified in that notice, shall be paid
at the redemption price, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date. If
moneys for the redemption of all of
the Temporary Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, together
with accrued interest thereon to the
redemption date, are held by the
Registrar on the redemption date, so
as to be available therefor on that
date and, if notice of redemption has
been deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then
from
and
after
the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If those moneys shall
not be so available on the redemption date, or that notice shall not
have been deposited in the mail as
aforesaid, those Temporary Bonds
and portions thereof shall continue
to bear interest, until they are paid,
at the same rate as they would have
borne had they not been called for
redemption. All moneys held by the
Registrar for the redemption of particular Temporary Bonds shall be
held in trust for the account of the
registered owners thereof and shall
be paid to them, respectively, upon
presentation and surrender of those
Temporary Bonds.
Section 5. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent, and paying agent for
the Temporary Bonds after determining that the payment at that
bank or trust company will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and that proper procedures
and safeguards are available for
that purpose (the “Registrar”). The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, a registrar agreement or
agreements between the City and
the Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. In the event
that a trust agreement secures the
Temporary Bonds, as provided in
Section 10, the Registrar Agreement
may be incorporated in such trust
agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the

2066

August 22, 2001
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
The Temporary Bonds shall be
issued only as fully registered Temporary Bonds. Principal on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable when
due upon presentation and surrender
of the Temporary Bonds at the designated office of the Registrar designated in the Registrar Agreement.
Interest on each Temporary Bond
shall be paid on each interest payment date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Temporary Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing on the Register (defined below
in this Section) at the close of business on the 15th day of the calendar month next preceding that interest payment date. The City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange,
and transfer of Temporary Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Register”) so long as any of the Temporary Bonds remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Temporary Bond is registered on the
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Temporary
Bond for all purposes of the Proceedings. Payment of or on account
of the debt charges on any Temporary Bond shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Temporary Bond, including interest,
to the extent of the amount or
amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Temporary Bonds
are issued in a book entry system,
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable in
the manner provided in any agreement entered into by the Director of
Finance, in the name and on behalf
of the City, in connection with the
book entry system.
Section 6. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Temporary Bonds. Temporary Bonds may be exchanged for
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination upon presentation and
surrender at the office designated by
the
Registrar,
together
with
a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person
legally empowered to do so in a form
satisfactory to the Registrar. A Temporary Bond may be transferred only
on the Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Temporary
Bond at the office designated by the
Registrar together with an assignment signed by the registered owner
or by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer, the Registrar shall complete,
authenticate, and deliver a new Temporary Bond or Temporary Bonds, of
any
authorized
denomination
or
authorized denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Temporary Bond surrendered
and bearing interest at the same rate
and maturing on the same date.

August 22, 2001
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Temporary Bonds only
after the new Temporary Bonds are
signed by the authorized officers of
the City. In all cases of Temporary
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Temporary Bonds in accordance with the
provisions of the Proceedings. The
exchange or transfer shall be without charge to the owner, except that
the City and Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse them
for any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with
respect to the exchange or transfer.
The City or the Registrar may
require that those charges, if any,
be paid before the procedure is
begun for the exchange or transfer.
All Temporary Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid special obligations of the City, evidencing the
same obligation, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under the
Proceedings,
as
the
Temporary
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Temporary Bond during the period beginning at the
opening of business 15 days before
the day of the mailing of a notice
of redemption of Temporary Bonds
and ending at the close of business
on the day of such mailing or to
transfer or exchange any Temporary Bond selected for redemption in
whole or in part.
Section 7. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interests of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Temporary Bonds may be issued in book
entry form in accordance with the
provisions of this Section. As used
in this Section and this Ordinance:
The Temporary Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized, (i) the Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Temporary Bond
representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (ii) the book
entry interest owners of Temporary
Bonds in book entry form shall have
no
right
to
receive
Temporary
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of book entry interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of book entry interests
shall be made only by book entry
by the Depository and its Participants;
and
(iv)
the
Temporary
Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Temporary Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Director of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do

The City Record
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the book entry interest owners by
the then Depository and any other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the Temporary Bonds from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Temporary Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 8. Execution of Temporary
Bonds. Temporary Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director of Finance, in the name of the
City and in their official capacities,
provided that either or both of those
signatures may be a facsimile, and
shall bear the seal of the City or a
facsimile thereof; provided that no
Temporary Bond shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under the Proceedings unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Temporary Bond
is signed by the Registrar as
authenticating agent, and authentication by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the Temporary
Bond so authenticated has been duly
issued, signed and delivered under,
and is entitled to the security and
benefit of, the Proceedings. The certificate of authentication may be
signed by any authorized officer or
employee of the Registrar or by any
other person acting as an agent of
the Registrar and approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. The same person need not sign
the certificate of authentication on
all of the Temporary Bonds.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Temporary Bonds
and
shall
endorse
thereon
his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature. The Temporary Bonds
shall be issued in the denominations
as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the Director
of Finance, in conformity with this
Ordinance.
The
entire
principal
amount may be represented by a single bond certificate and may be
issued as fully registered securities
and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the
Director
of
Finance
that
issuance of fully registered securities in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the authorized denominations of either (a) $100,000 each
or in any denomination that is the
sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, and
not exchangeable for other Temporary Bonds in denominations less
than $100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, as determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award to be in the
best interests of the City. The Temporary Bonds shall not have coupons

2067

131
attached, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary
terms, for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 9. Sale of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be sold at not less than 97% of par
plus accrued interest at private sale
by the Director of Finance to the
Original Purchaser in accordance
with law and the provisions of this
Ordinance. If, in the reasonable
opinion of the Director of Finance,
an underwriter is incapable of fully
performing its duties or meeting its
obligations in its capacity as Original Purchaser with respect to the
Temporary Bonds, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Temporary Bonds to be prepared, and
have the Temporary Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Temporary Bonds if requested by the
Original Purchaser, to the Original
Purchaser upon payment of the purchase price. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in a form
consistent with this Ordinance and
as approved by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to the
extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Clerk, the
Director of Law, and other City officials, as appropriate, are each authorized and directed to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
Section 10. Security for the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues. The payment of
debt charges on the
Temporary
Bonds is secured by a pledge of and
lien on (i) the Revenues and (ii) the
Nontax Revenues
which
are
on
deposit in the Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund created below. The
Temporary Bonds are not and shall
not be secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation. The Temporary Bonds do not
and shall not represent or constitute
a debt or pledge of the faith and
credit or taxing power of the City,
and the owners thereof have and
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment of
debt charges thereon. The Temporary
Bonds shall contain a statement to

132
that effect and to the effect that the
Temporary Bonds are payable solely
from the Revenues and the Nontax
Revenues and are not secured by an
obligation or pledge of any money
raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Temporary Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Revenues and any other funds available
for the purpose, to pay the debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Temporary Bonds as will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues
to pay debt charges when due,
which Nontax Revenues are hereby
selected by the City pursuant to Section 725.05(C) of the Revised Code
as moneys that are not raised by
taxation.
There is hereby created by the
City a separate fund or account designated as the “Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund” (the “Debt Retirement Fund”) into which shall be
deposited (i) the Revenues upon
receipt, and (ii) other Nontax Revenues on or prior to the date debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
are due, in an amount sufficient to
pay those debt charges. Any Revenues remaining after payment, or
provision for payment, of all debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
shall be deposited, to the extent not
otherwise pledged or encumbered,
as follows: half in the Housing
Trust Fund (Fund No. 14 SF 027)
and half the Neighborhood Development Investment Fund (Fund No. 10
SF 501).
Nothing herein shall be construed
as requiring the City to use or apply
to the payment of debt charges on
the Temporary Bonds any funds or
revenues from any source other than
Revenues and the Nontax Revenues.
Nothing herein, however, shall be
deemed to prohibit the City, of its
own volition, from using, to the
extent that it is authorized by law
to do so, any other resources for the
fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this Ordinance or of the Temporary Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds or
from the Revenues or the Nontax
Revenues, pay or cause to be paid
the debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds on the dates, at the places
and in the manner provided herein
and in the Temporary Bonds. For
that purpose, in each year while the
Temporary Bonds are outstanding,
this Council, after providing for the
payment of debt charges payable on
the City’s general obligation securities in that year from sources available for that purpose, will appropriate Nontax Revenues required to
pay, and for the purpose of paying,
the debt charges due in that year on
the Temporary Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues. Further, this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those

The City Record
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Temporary Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Temporary
Bonds and any outstanding parity
obligations payable from Nontax
Revenues, unless, prior to passage
of the ordinance authorizing such
parity obligations, the Director of
Finance shall have certified to this
Council that the Nontax Revenues
during the preceding calendar year,
adjusted to reflect, if necessary,
changes in the rates or charges
resulting in the Nontax Revenues,
aggregate in amount not less than
100% of the highest amount of (a)
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Temporary Bonds is binding upon the City,
and upon each officer or employee
of the City as may from time to time
have the authority under law to
take any action on behalf of the
City as may be necessary to perform
all or any part of such obligation,
as a duty of the City and of each of
those officers and employees resulting from an office, trust or station
within
the
meaning
of
Section
2731.01 of the Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
In the event that the interest on
the Temporary Bonds is to be provided for from Temporary Bond proceeds, or if in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, after consultation with the Financial Advisor, a
debt service reserve to secure the
Temporary Bonds is in the best
interest of and financially advantageous to the City, the City shall
enter into a trust agreement with
the bank or trust company serving
as Registrar for the Temporary
Bonds and providing for the Debt
Fund or a debt service reserve fund,
as applicable, to be held by that
bank or trust company, in its capacity as trustee, and such fund or
funds are hereby authorized. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the trust agreement in
a form consistent with this Ordinance and approved by the Director
of Law. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance and other City officials,
as appropriate, are authorized to
take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate such
additional security for the Temporary
Bonds.
The
City
hereby
covenants and agrees to appropriate
annually from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues into any such
funds amounts sufficient to maintain the balances required by the
trust agreement and to restore any
deficiency therein.
Section 11. Project Fund; Deposit
of Proceeds. The proceeds from the
sale of the Temporary Bonds are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purpose for which the Temporary Bonds are being issued. The
City hereby creates, and orders
maintained as a separate fund or as
a separate account, in the custody
and control of the City, a fund designated the “Erieview Urban Renewal
Project
Fund”
(the
“Project
Fund”). The proceeds from the sale
of the Temporary Bonds (exclusive

2068

August 22, 2001
of amounts to be deposited in the
Debt Retirement Fund, as directed
below) shall be deposited in the Project Fund and are hereby appropriated for and shall be used to pay the
costs of the
Project. Additional
funds, from whatever source, may be
voluntarily deposited in the Project
Fund by the City. The City may
establish separate accounts within
the Project Fund as necessary or
convenient to ascertain the dates,
amounts and sources of deposits. At
such time as disbursements are to be
made from the Project Fund to pay
costs of the Project, the City is
directed to transfer amounts in the
Project Fund to the appropriate fund
or funds of the City from which the
costs of the Project are to be paid.
Any portion of the proceeds of the
Temporary Bonds to be used to pay
interest on the Temporary Bonds or
to make a required deposit to a debt
service reserve fund shall be paid
into the Debt Retirement Fund and
any
debt
service
reserve
fund,
respectively, created pursuant to Section 10. Any premium and accrued
interest received from the sale of the
Temporary Bonds shall be deposited
in the Debt Retirement Fund.
Section 12. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial
Advisor and the Original Purchaser,
an official statement or other disclosure document is appropriate relating
to the initial offering of the Temporary Bonds, the Director of Finance,
on behalf of the City and in that officer’s official capacity, is authorized
to (i) cooperate with the Original
Purchaser in the preparation of, and
the making of modifications, completions or changes of or supplements
to, such a disclosure document, (ii)
determine, and to certify or otherwise
represent, when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is final,
(iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and
any supplements thereto in connection with the initial offering of the
Temporary Bonds, and (iv) sign certificates, statements or other documents in connection with the finality, accuracy, and completeness of
that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Temporary Bonds, the City
agrees, as the only obligated person
with respect to the Temporary Bonds
under the Rule, to provide or cause
to be provided such financial information and operating data, audited
financial statements and notices, in
such manner, as may be required for
purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of
the Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment,
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, and if required
under the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure Certificate or Certificates in
conformance
with
the
reporting
requirements of the Rule. The agreement formed, collectively, by this
paragraph and that Certificate, shall
be the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish

August 22, 2001
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 13. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Financial Advisor, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Temporary Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a
Credit Support Instrument is in the
best interest of, and financially
advantageous to, the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications,
to provide to each such agency, company or Credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds.
Section 14. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose of
achieving the optimal available debt
structure for the Temporary Bonds,
the Director of Finance may, based
on the written advice of the Financial Advisor, enter into one or more
agreements in connection with or
subsequent to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds for an interest
rate swap, an interest rate cap or
other such arrangement to lower the
effective interest rate on the obligations to the City or to hedge the
exposure of the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates,
provided, however, that: (i) the debt
structure that is simulated through
the combination of the Temporary
Bonds with any such agreements
shall comply with the restrictions of
this Ordinance on the terms of and
security for the Temporary Bonds
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Temporary
Bonds; (ii) the counterparty to any
swap agreement and the provider of
any interest rate cap shall have a
rating of at least “A” by either
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or
Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii)
no such agreement shall purport to
entitle the counterparty to the agreement to payment by the City from
any source other than the sources
which secure the Temporary Bonds
as described in this Ordinance; (iv)
the cost of obtaining any such interest rate cap or other such arrangement shall have been determined by
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of the Financial Advisor, to be justified by the corresponding benefit to the City and to
be commercially reasonable based on
then current market conditions. The
notional amount on which any such
agreement is based shall not be subject to the limitations set forth herein on the maximum principal amount
of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 15. Tax Covenants. In the
event that the Temporary Bonds are

The City Record
issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, the covenants in this Section 15 shall govern. However, if the
Temporary Bonds are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
that is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes, the
City shall not be bound by the
covenants
of
this
Section
with
respect to the Temporary Bonds.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Temporary Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code) or (ii) be treated other than as bonds to which Section 103(a) of the Code applies, and
(b) the interest on the Temporary
Bonds will not be treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57
of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Temporary Bonds to be
and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting
for it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Temporary Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Temporary Bonds as
the City is permitted to or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Temporary Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclu-

2069

133
sion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Temporary Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Temporary Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 16. Purchase of Properties.
The Director of Community Development is authorized to purchase
the Properties, which are more
specifically described in Exhibit A
hereto, by paying to the Escrow
Agent as defined in the Agreements
such funds and executing such documents as may be necessary to
effectuate the repurchase rights of
the City pursuant to the Agreements.
Section 17. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 18. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Temporary
Bonds
authorized
herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, Temporary Bonds,
certificates of indebtedness, other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 19. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City or
to have been met precedent to and
in the issuing of the Temporary
Bonds in order to make them legal,
valid, and binding special obligations of the City have been performed and have been met, or will
at the time of delivery of the Temporary Bonds have been performed
and have been met, in regular and
due form as required by law, and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional,
is
applicable
to
the
issuance of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 20. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section
21. That
underwriters’
counsel for the bond issuance and
sale authorized herein shall be
Thompson Hine LLP and David Hill
and Associates.
Section 22. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an

134
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Exhibit “A”
PARCEL 22-A-2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 175, 176
and 177 in the Nathan Perry Allotment as shown in Deed Book 35,
Page
11
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and a part of Emerald
Court N.E. (18 and 28 feet wide)
vacated by Ordinance Number 181677, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on August 1, 1977, and
being further known as Parcel 22-A2 in the Erieview Renewal Project
II, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
St. Clair Avenue, N.E. (99 feet wide)
as dedicated by the recorded plat in
Volume 188 of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Records, at its intersection with the Easterly line of
East 12th Street (140 feet wide), as
proposed to be widened; thence
South 33° 59' 17" East, along the
Easterly line of said East 12th
Street, as proposed to be widened,
275.65 feet to its intersection with
the
Northerly
line
of
Rockwell
Avenue, N.E. (60 feet wide); thence
North 55° 39' 15" East, along the
Northerly line of said Rockwell
Avenue, N.E., 135.00 feet to a point;
said point being at the Southwesterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed to St. Clair Place, L.T.D. by
deed recorded in Volume 14636, Page
79 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence North 33° 59' 17" West, along
a Westerly line of land so conveyed
to St. Clair Place, L.T.D. 221.14 feet
to a point; said point being in a
Northwesterly corner of said land
conveyed to St. Clair Place, L.T.D.;
thence North 47° 27' 28" East, along
a Northwesterly line of land so conveyed to St. Clair Place, L.T.D., 75.84
feet to an inner corner therein;
thence North 33° 59' 17" West, along
a Westerly line of land so conveyed
to St. Clair Place, L.T.D., 65.73 feet
to the proposed Southerly line of St.
Clair Avenue., N.E.; thence South 47°
27' 28" West, along said proposed
Southerly line of St. Clair Avenue,
N.E., 153.15 feet to its intersection
with the Southerly line of St. Clair
Avenue as dedicated in Volume 188
of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence South 55° 27' 26"
West, along said Southerly line of
St. Clair Avenue, N.E., 58.55 feet to
the place of beginning and containing 42,583 square feet (0.9776 Acres)
of land, be the same more less, but
subject to all legal highways.
PARCEL NO. 9-B+
(HAMILTON AVENUE PARCEL)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublots Nos. 65 and 84, part of
Sublots Nos. 64, 66, 83 and 85 in Levi
Johnson’s Allotment of all of Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 178 to 181,
both inclusive, and part of Two Acre
Lots Nos. 182, 187, 188, 189 and 190,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records, part of Canfield Court N.E., 20 feet in width

The City Record

August 22, 2001

(now vacated) and part of St. Clair
Avenue N.E. (now vacated) by Ordinance No. 914-79, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 21, 1979 and shown by the
Vacation Plat recorded in Volume
225 of Maps, Page 18 of Cuyahoga
County Records, together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Southeasterly
line of Hamilton Avenue N.E., 40
feet in width, at its intersection
with the Northeasterly line of East
12th Street, 140 feet in width, as
shown
by
the
Dedication
Plat
recorded in Volume 231 in Maps,
Page
12
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Course No. 1: thence North 55° 41'
49" East along said Southeasterly
line of Hamilton Avenue N.E., 101.88
feet to the Northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to B. A. Carran by
deed dated September 7, 1946 and
recorded in Volume 6216, Page 16
and by deed recorded in Volume
12384, Page 927 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 2: thence South 34° 02'
48" East along the Southwesterly
line of land so conveyed to B. A.
Carran, 99.90 feet to a point in the
Northwesterly
line
of
Canfield
Court, N.E., 20 feet in width;
Course No. 3: thence South 09° 08'
37" East, along the Southwesterly
line of Canfield Court N.E., 22.09 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to David E. Owen (onehalf interest) by deed dated May 14,
1981 and recorded in Volume 15453,
Page
315
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and Abe Owen (one-half
interest) by deed dated April 18,
1975 and recorded in Volume 13824,
Page
175
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Course No. 4: thence South 33° 59'
17" East along the Southwesterly
line of land so conveyed to David E.
Owen and Abe Owen, and along the
Southeasterly prolongation thereof,
159.54 feet to a point in the Northwesterly line of relocated St. Clair
Avenue N.E.;
Course No. 5: thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of
relocated St. Clair Avenue N.E.,
being along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 41.05 feet to
a point of tangency, said curved line
having a radius of 460.50 feet and a
chord which bears South 53°15' 29"
West a distance of 41.04 feet;
Course No. 6: thence South 55° 48'
42" West along the Northwesterly
line of St. Clair Avenue N.E., as now
relocated, 51.71 feet to a point in the
aforementioned Northeasterly line of
East 12th Street;
Course No. 7: thence North 33° 59'
17" West, along said Northeasterly
line of said East 12th Street, 281.08
feet to the place of beginning, containing 27,053 square feet of land
(0.6211 acres) according to a survey
by Garrett & Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors,
made in June, 1987, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Permanent Parcels
Additional Properties:
102-6-43
102-6-44
102-6-45
102-6-46
102-6-47
102-6-62
102-6-63
102-6-64

2070

Numbers

of

102-6-65
102-6-66
102-6-67
102-6-68
102-6-69
102-6-70
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 640-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to authorize the City of Cleveland to
act as an aggregator on behalf of
the natural gas customers within
the City.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Article
XVIII, Section 4 of the Ohio Constitution, the City of Cleveland has plenary power to, among other things,
own and operate municipal utilities
or to contract with others for the
provision of utility services to the
residents and businesses located
within the City; and
Whereas, pursuant to R.C. Section
4929.20, et seq., municipalities may
aggregate customers within their
jurisdiction in order to promote
lower cost natural gas services within the municipality; and
Whereas, aggregation by the City
may permit natural gas customers
within the City to realize lower natural gas rates from the collective
purchasing of natural gas services;
and
Whereas, pursuant to the authority conferred by R.C. Section 4929.26,
the City of Cleveland desires to submit an ordinance to the Board of
Elections to submit to the electors
of the City of Cleveland the question of whether the City should create an aggregation program in
accordance with R.C. Section 4929.26;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it will establish a
retail aggregation program for the
benefit of the City’s natural gas consumers; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby authorizes the submission to the
electors of the City of Cleveland at
a special election to be held at the
usual places of voting of said City
on Tuesday, November 6, 2001, of a
proposal to authorize the City of
Cleveland to act as an aggregator
on behalf of the natural gas customers within the City for natural
gas in accordance with R.C. Section
4929.20, et seq.
Section
2.
That
the
proposed
aggregation
authorization,
upon
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast thereon at the November
6,
2001,
special
election,
shall
become effective immediately upon
its adoption, and the City’s aggregation
program
shall
thereafter
commence in accordance with the
plan of operation to be established
pursuant to R.C. Section 4929.26, et
seq. If the proposed aggregation
authorization is so adopted, all natural gas customers within the City
shall automatically be included in
the City’s aggregation program, provided, however, that each customer
shall have an opportunity to opt out
of the City’s aggregation program.

August 22, 2001
Section 3. That the Clerk of this
Council is hereby authorized to
promptly forward a certified copy of
this ordinance to the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County by no
later than August 23, 2001.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
duly given of the election to be held
on November 6, 2001, on the foregoing proposal and otherwise to provide for such election in the manner
provided by the general laws of the
State of Ohio.
Section 5. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were passed in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to
the public in compliance with all
legal requirements.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the aforesaid proposal shall read as
follows:
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall the City of Cleveland have
the authority to aggregate competitive retail natural gas service for
the retail natural gas loads located
in the City, and for that purpose,
enter into service agreements to
facilitate for those loads the sale
and purchase of natural gas, such
aggregation to occur automatically
except where any person elects to
opt out?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 849-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating,
rehabilitating and improving various parks, recreation facilities and
property, including but not limited
to Camp Forbes, Martin Luther
King, Jr. overpass plantings, Cultural
Garden
Park
Station
and
Memorial Park site improvements,
and authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of renovating, rehabilitating
and improving various parks, recreation facilities and property, including but not limited to Camp Forbes,

The City Record
Martin Luther King, Jr. overpass
plantings, Cultural Garden Park Station
and
Memorial
Park
site
improvements, for the Division of
Research, Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement provided however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component
part
of
said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
180, 20 SF 303, 20 SF 343, 20 SF 354,
20 SF 361 and 10 SF 039, Request No.
5091.
Section 4. That no funds shall be
expended
for
the
improvement
authorized herein until a report, certified by the Director of Finance,
indicating the unencumbered balance of all general obligation bonds
for the years 1990-2001 is received by
the Council President, the chairperson of the Public Parks, Property
and Recreation Committee, and the
chairperson of the Finance Committee.
Such report shall be provided
immediately by the Director of
Finance.
Section 5. That, in the event that
the report required by Section 4 indicates there is an unencumbered balance of $3,300,000 or more, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized to do the following:
(a) Pursuant to Section 167 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is hereby determined to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovation, replacing
or otherwise improving certain Cityowned parks in the odd-numbered
wards, in the amount of $300,000 per
odd numbered ward, including all
site
improvements
and
appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto,
for
the
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a unit basis for the
improvement; and
(b) The Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to enter into contract of
the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a unit basis for the
improvement
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a unit basis;
and
(c) The Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland

2071

135
in order to provide professional services necessary to design the public
improvement authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance; and
(d) That the improvement authorized in this Section 5 shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which the
unencumbered
general
obligation
balance, certified by the Director of
Finance in the report required by
Section 4, is credited.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 850-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Board of Education to conduct
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of
school children during the 2001-2002
school year.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995,
tax revenues from levying the parking facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admissions tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2001-2002
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Finance are hereby authorized
to enter into contract with the Board
of Education of the Cleveland City
School District to conduct various
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of

136
City school children, in accordance
with the program description contained in File No. 850-01-A, for an
amount not to exceed $2,000,000,
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the taxes levied pursuant to Ordinance No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28,
1995, under such terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That no money shall be
paid to the Board of Education pursuant to the above-authorized contract until the Board of Education
has furnished a report to the Cleveland City Council regarding the
2000-01 recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs funded by
the $2,000,000 provided to the Board
of Education last year.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 891-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Famicos Foundation
for the renovation of the Downtown
Single
Room
Occupancy
(SRO)
building located at 1850 Superior
Avenue, to forward the public purpose of creating and improving
housing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Famicos Foundation for
the renovation of the Downtown Single Room Occupancy (SRO) building
located at 1850 Superior Avenue, to
forward the public purpose of creating and improving housing in the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 903-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization for Phase II of the Bridge
Square housing development project
to promote the public purpose of
creating
housing
in
Cleveland
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization,
as the City’s agent, to assist the
homebuyers of Phase II of the
Bridge Square housing development
project to promote the public purpose of creating housing in Cleveland through the use of Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $40,000.00 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 915-01.
By Councilman O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. for the renovation of a
vacant single family housing unit
located at 4214 Memphis Avenue to
promote the public purpose of creating and improving housing in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
16
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

2072

August 22, 2001
rized to enter into an agreement
with Cleveland Housing Network
Inc. as the City’s agent, to assist the
homebuyer of a house to be renovated at 4214 Memphis Avenue,
through the use of Ward 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $12,500.00 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 924-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Northeast Shores
Development Corporation for the
renovation of the Huntmere, an
apartment building located at 15510
Huntmere Avenue to further the
public purpose of creating and
improving housing in the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
11 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Northeast Shores Development Corporation for the renovation of the Huntmere, an apartment
building located at 15510 Huntmere
Avenue to further the public purpose of creating and improving
housing in the City of Cleveland,
through the use of Ward 11 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000.00 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 928-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Bellaire-Puritas
Development Corporation for the
Ward 20 Fifty-Fifty Home Repair
Program to further the public purpose of improving housing in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
20
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation, as the City’s
agent, to carry out the Ward 20
Fifty-Fifty Home Repair Program to
further
the
public
purpose
of
improving housing in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $100,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 934-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation
for the renovation of a 10 unit apartment building, located at 12001 Ashbury Avenue to forward the public
purpose of creating and improving
housing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation for
the renovation of a 10 unit apartment building, located at 12001

The City Record
Ashbury Avenue to forward the
public purpose of creating and
improving housing in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $79,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 935-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Lutheran Housing
Corporation for the Ward 2 Home
Repair Program to further the public purpose of creating and improving housing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance and has approved such program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Lutheran Housing Corporation, as the City’s agent, to carry
out the Ward 2 Home Repair Program to further the public purpose
of creating and improving housing
in the City of Cleveland, through the
use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $100,000.00 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2073

137
Ord. No. 1046-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary to repair interior and exterior
bodies of motor vehicle fleet, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
repair interior and exterior bodies of
motor vehicle fleet, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two years may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 16989)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1075-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for and
accept a grant from the State of
Ohio,
Department
of
natural
Resources for the Round 8 NatureWorks Program; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement
of
rehabilitating
a
City-owned park and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into contract for
the making of such improvement.

138
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the amount of
$100,000, from the State of Ohio,
Department of Natural Resources,
for the Round 8 NatureWorks Program, for the purposes set forth in
the project description and according thereto; that the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
they hereby are appropriated for the
purposes set
forth in the project
description for said grant.
Section 2. That the project description for said grant, File No. 1075-01A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide twenty-five percent (25%) of
the total project cost from Fund 20
SF 361.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating a City-owned
park for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 5. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance and cash from matching
funds committed pursuant to Section
2 of this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 1079-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the 2001

The City Record
Urban Parks and Recreation Recovery Program, for the rehabilitation
of Bisbee Playground; determining
the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating Bisbee playground; and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into contract for
the making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in an amount of
$500,000 from the 2001 Urban Parks
and Recreation Recovery Program
for the rehabilitation of Bisbee Playground, for the purposes set forth in
the application and according thereto; that the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
such grant, File No. 1079-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds a sum not to
exceed $215,000 from Fund 10 SF
166, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating Bisbee playground for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 5. That the cost of said
contracts hereby authorized shall be
paid from fund or funds to which
are credited the grant proceeds
accepted pursuant to this ordinance
and cash from matching funds committed pursuant to Section 2 of this
ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2074

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1132-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Corporation for their Neighborhood Safety
Video Monitoring program in order
to carry out the public purpose of
providing increased safety and security through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Corporation
for their Neighborhood Safety Video
Monitoring program in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing increased safety and security through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1144-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of billing system supplies,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
billing
system
supplies,
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any com-

August 22, 2001
bination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 34002)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1145-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary to
upgrade the residuals handling systems at the Garrett A. Morgan
Water Treatment plant, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: labor and materials necessary to upgrade the residuals handling systems at the Garrett A.
Morgan Water Treatment plant, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 52
SF 223, 52 SF 225, and from the
funds or funds to which are credited proceeds of the sale of waterworks revenue bonds issued in the
future which include this purpose,
Request No. 34025.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1149-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide assessment,
developmental services and training
sessions to employees regarding
Federal and State environmental,
OSHA, safety and health regulations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide assessment, developmental services and training sessions to
employees regarding Federal and
State environmental, OSHA, safety
and health regulations.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Utilities, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001, 54
SF 001 and 58 SF 001, Request No.
34000.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1156-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with Dionex Corporation for maintenance of ion chromatograph and appurtenances, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities

2075

139
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Dionex Corporation. Therefore, the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to make a written
contract with said Dionex Corporation upon the basis of their proposal dated March 27, 2001, for maintenance of ion chromatograph and
appurtenances, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies for a gross price for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 33827.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1157-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with Hach Company for maintenance and calibration
of turbidimeters, chlorine analyzers
and particle-size analyzers, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Hach
Company.
Therefore,
the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to make a written
contract with said Hach Company,
based upon their proposal dated
March 13, 2001, for a period not to
exceed three years, for maintenance
and calibration of turbidimeters,
chlorine analyzers and particle-size
analyzers, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 33829.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

140
Ord. No. 1158-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into contract without competitive bidding with Shimadzu Scientific Instruments, Inc. for maintenance
of total organic carbon analyzer
equipment, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Shimadzu Scientific Instruments, Inc.
Therefore, the Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to make a
written contract with said Shimadzu
Scientific Instruments, Inc. upon the
basis of their proposal dated May 21,
2001, for maintenance of total organic carbon analyzer equipment, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 34026.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1164-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a grant agreement with Mount Pleasant NOW
Development Corporation for the purchase and installation of two elevators in connection with construction
of a commercial office building in
order to carry out the public purpose
of creating new jobs in the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Mount Pleasant NOW
Development Corporation for the
purchase and installation of two elevators in connection with construction of a commercial office building
in order to carry out the public purpose of creating new jobs in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1166-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a grant agreement with Dove Park Panthers Youth
Association for their Muny Football
Program in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing recreational programs through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with Dove Park Panthers Youth
Association for their Muny Football
Program in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing recreational programs through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1213-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section
1
of
Ordinance
1715-99,
passed September 27, 1999, to authorize and approve a mortgage loan
and/or grant assistance program for
the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals and families, through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
assistance for purchasers of housing
at 2798 East 119th Street being rehabilitated by Buckeye Area Development Corporation; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
1715-99,
passed September 27, 1999 did not
specify the use of funds for said
assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

2076

August 22, 2001
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1715-99, passed September 27,
1999 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Buckeye
Area Development Corporation to
provide funding directly by the City
to individuals and families in order
to promote the sale of a house at
2798 East 119th Street in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1715-99, passed September 27,
1999 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1216-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 80901 passed May 14, 2001 to enter into
a grant agreement with Tremont
West Development Corporation for
the development of a master plan
and a HOPE VI application in order
to carry out the public purposes of
conducting a neighborhood planning
study and providing housing, using
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 809-01, passed May 14,
2001, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with Tremont West Development
Corporation for the development of a
master plan and a HOPE VI application in order to carry out the public purposes of conducting a neighborhood planning study and providing housing, through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 809-01, passed May 14,
2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1221-A-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease with Radiant Aviation Services to design, install and
maintain an Infrared aircraft deicing facility at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
notwithstanding, the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease with Radiant Aviation
Services (RAS) to design, install
and maintain an Infrared aircraft
deicing facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for a
term of eight (8) years, with the
rent to be offset by credits for apron
improvements constructed by and at
the expense of RAS, which will
become the property of the City.
Said Lease shall be executed no
later than six (6) months following
passage of this legislation or such
authorization to enter into said
Lease shall terminate.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1227-01.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000,
passed April 17, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
for
individuals
and
families,
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
second mortgage assistance for purchasers of scattered site housing
being developed by Buckeye Area
Development Corporation; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
606-2000,
passed April 17, 2000 did not specify the use of funds for said second
mortgage assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000, passed April 17, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Buckeye
Area Development Corporation to
provide funding directly by the City
to individuals and families in order
to promote the sale of scattered site
housing in the City of Cleveland by
using second mortgage financing as
an incentive.

The City Record
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000, passed April 17, 2000
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1230-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
in the Eco-Village development for
individuals and families, through
the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
assistance for purchasers of town
houses being developed by DetroitShoreway Community Development
Organization; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
1135-2000,
passed June 19, 2000 did not specify
the use of funds for said assistance;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000, passed June 19, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with DetroitShoreway Community Development
Organization to provide funding
directly by the City to individuals
and families purchasing townhouses
in the Eco-Village development in
the City of Cleveland, through the
use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000, passed June 19, 2000
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1231-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an amendment to Loan Agreement No. 53646
with Otis Associates Limited Partnership, to make modifications to
the contract.

2077

141
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an amendment to Loan Agreement No. 53646
between the City and Otis Associates
Limited Partnership, to cap the City
subsidization of up to twenty apartments as described in Section 5.15 of
said agreement at 10 years from the
date of execution of the original
loan agreement or upon refinancing,
whichever occurs first, and to make
such other modifications to the loan
agreement needed to fully set forth
the Low Income Household Requirements Program as determined by the
Director of Community Development.
All other loan terms contained in the
original
loan
agreement
shall
remain the same.
Section 2. That the amendment to
the loan agreement herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
terms and conditions as said Director deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1232-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering,
environmental, safety, forensic, and
other services needed for the various divisions of the Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to
provide professional services necessary to provide engineering services; construction inspection services; structural and geotechnical
analysis services; permit applications services; materials testing and
analysis services; risk assessments
services; cost-benefit analysis services; laboratory and monitoring services; environmental and safety consulting services; remediation and
disposal services; forensic investigations services; hazardous materials
remediation and disposal services;
water
treatment
process
assessments and analysis services; and
other related professional consulting
services needed for the Divisions of
Water, Water Pollution Control, and
Cleveland Public Power, Department

142
of Public Utilities, for a period not
to exceed two years.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Utilities, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 33886
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 1235-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000,
passed January 24, 2000, to authorize and approve a mortgage loan
and/or grant assistance program for
the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals and families, through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
assistance for purchasers of ten
houses to be rehabilitated by Famicos Foundation; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
113-2000,
passed January 24, 2000, did not
specify the use of funds for said
assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000, passed January 24,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Famicos
Foundation to provide second mortgage assistance from the City to
individuals and families purchasing
houses in the City of Cleveland,
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000, passed January 24,
2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1237-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 1137-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
for individuals and families.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
second mortgage assistance for purchasers of four townhouses being
developed
by
Northeast
Shores
Development Corporation; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 137-2000,
passed June 19, 2000 did not specify
the use of funds for said second
mortgage assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 137-2000, passed June 19,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to
provide funding directly by the City
to individuals and families in order
to promote the sale of four townhouses in the City of Cleveland by
using second mortgage financing as
an incentive.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 137-2000, passed June 19,
2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1238-01.
By
Councilman
Polensek
(by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the Director of Public Service to issue
a permit to Mr. William McReynolds to
encroach into the public right-of-way,
of Tiverton Road N.E. to construct a
fence covering 50 feet of unimproved
right-of-way on this street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service
to Mr. William McReynolds who
resides at 19705 Shelton Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, his successors and
assigns, to encroach into the public
right-of-way, of Tiverton Road N.E.
to construct, use and maintain a
fence covering approximately 50.00
feet of unimproved public right-ofway of this street at the location
more fully described as follows:
PROPOSED AREA OF
ENCROACHMENT FOR FENCE/
TIVERTON ROAD N.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State

2078

August 22, 2001
of Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Tiverton Road N.E. (50.00
feet wide) extending Northeasterly
from a point 50.00 feet Northeasterly from the intersection of the centerline of Tiverton Road N.E. with
the centerline of Shelton Drive N.E.
to its Northeasterly terminus.
Section 2. That said encroachment,
is to be located within the public
right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
1, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction, and
that all other required permits,
including a building Permit, shall
be obtained before said fence is constructed.
Section 3. That the Permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1240-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000,
passed June 12, 2000, to authorize
and approve financial assistance for
the Harvard School Senior Apartments project, to carry out the public purpose of assisting industry and
commerce in the City of Cleveland,
through the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved financial
assistance to Slavic Village Development for the Harvard School
Senior Apartments project, to carry
out the public purpose of assisting
industry and commerce in the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000, passed June 12, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $202,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000, passed June 12, 2000
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record

August 22, 2001

143

Ord. No. 1246-01.
By Councilman Coats (by departmental request).
An ordinance to assess the cost and expense of construction and repairing of sidewalks and curbing. (Endora
Avenue Assessment).
Whereas, pursuant to Resolution No. 813-99 adopted May 3, 1999, written notice requiring the laying, re-laying
and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings, including adjustments of utility
boxes, where necessary, in front of premises hereinafter set forth was duly served upon the owners in the manner
prescribed by law, but which sidewalks and curbing were not constructed or repaired by the owners of said
premises, the same being done by the City of Cleveland, pursuant to Section 165 of the Charter; and,
Whereas, the Director of Finance has reported to this Council on the 18th day of June, 2001, all of the expenses
of such construction and repairing by the City of Cleveland, and,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the purpose of paying for the cost and expense of constructing and repairing of sidewalks,
driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings, including adjustments of utility boxes, where necessary, there
be and hereby is levied and assessed upon the following described property abutting said improvements situated
in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, the following respective amounts:
PERMANENT
PARCEL

OWNER
NAMES

LOCATION
ADDRESS

TOTAL
AMOUNT

117-12-027
117-13-019
117-13-020
117-13-056
117-13-057
117-13-092
117-13-093
117-14-001
117-14-002
117-14-003
117-14-004
117-14-005
117-14-006
117-14-007
117-14-008
117-14-009
117-14-011
117-14-012
117-14-013
117-14-014
117-14-015
117-14-016
117-14-017
117-14-018
117-14-019
117-14-020
117-15-001
117-15-002
117-15-003
117-15-004
117-15-005
117-15-006
117-15-007
117-15-008
117-15-009
117-15-010
117-15-011
117-15-012
117-15-013
117-15-014
117-15-015
117-15-016
117-15-017
117-15-018
117-15-019
117-15-020
117-15-021
117-15-022
117-15-080
117-16-020
117-16-021
117-16-059
117-16-060
117-16-097
117-16-114
117-17-013

LORETTA WILLIAMS
ALEESE SANDERS
HILLARY WORKMAN
MURRY L. MAXWELL
WILLIE MAE RUCKER
D'ANGELO SPENCER
1ST NATIONWIDE MORT.
ANITA R. HAMZAH
JAMES S. TARVER
WILLIE JOE ROBINSON
EDDIE JONES JR.
SUSAN CUNNINGHAM
REGINA CLEGGS
JANICE SPEARS
CHARLES R. JACKSON
BIRDALE WEST
ROBERT HOSTEMEIER
DELLA L. CARPENTER
LYNN WHITE SYLVERNA
CLAUDIA D. CALDWELL
ANTHONY PETERSON
EUGENE BARKER
EUGENE BARKER
JOHNNIE F. JARRETT
CAROL DEARING
CLEO HAYNES
CONSUELO HILL
MICHAEL R. WILLIAMS
GENEVA J. WILLIAMS
DENZIL DUHANEY
BERNICE M. GREER
JUANITA H. SHEPHARD
THERON S. SAMS
HIAWATHA L. SHIVERS
C TESMER LEONA
CHARLIE J. PERKINS
ALLEN AIKENS
JOE CASIAS
LISA LATHAN
OTIS FLANNIGAN
WILLIAM A. CALHOUN
BERNARD LEMON
L EDWARDS COLEMAN
ANDREW BRAXTON
MATTIE L. JONES
CEDRIC PETERSON
ANTHONY L. HAMILTON
RHONDA L. WALLS
M. YVONNE SAUNDERS
ALFRED E. BARCLAY
LAWRENCE PROP /REH.
WILLIE PEOPLES
BARBARA J. KING
SAM SIMMONS, JR.
SAM SIMMONS, JR.
EDWARD MARTIN

1894 COLONNADE AVE.
1893 COLONNADE AVE.
1890 LAMPSON AVE.
16707 ENDORA AVE.
1890 MANNERING AVE.
1889 MANNERING AVE.
1890 HALDANE AVE.
16600 ENDORA AVE.
16604 ENDORA AVE.
16606 ENDORA AVE.
16608 ENDORA AVE.
16612 ENDORA AVE.
16616 ENDORA AVE.
16620 ENDORA AVE.
16624 ENDORA AVE.
16628 ENDORA AVE.
16706 ENDORA AVE.
16710 ENDORA AVE.
16800 ENDORA AVE.
16804 ENDORA AVE.
16808 ENDORA AVE.
16812 ENDORA AVE.
16902 ENDORA AVE.
16904 ENDORA AVE.
16908 ENDORA AVE.
16910 ENDORA AVE.
16916 ENDORA AVE.
16920 ENDORA AVE.
16924 ENDORA AVE.
17002 ENDORA AVE.
17006 ENDORA AVE.
17012 ENDORA AVE.
17014 ENDORA AVE.
17018 ENDORA AVE.
17022 ENDORA AVE.
17116 ENDORA AVE.
17120 ENDORA AVE.
17200 ENDORA AVE.
17204 ENDORA AVE.
17206 ENDORA AVE.
17212 ENDORA AVE.
17216 ENDORA AVE.
17220 ENDORA AVE.
17224 ENDORA AVE.
17300 ENDORA AVE.
17304 ENDORA AVE.
17308 ENDORA AVE.
17312 ENDORA AVE.
1895 REYBURN AVE.
1887 HALDANE AVE.
1886 REYBURN AVE.
1883 REYBURN AVE.
1882 GRANTHAM AVE.
1874 WILLOWHURST AVE.
1875 WILLOWHURST AVE.
1890 RUDWICK AVE.

$
2,748.00
$
3,924.60
$
5,657.30
$
4,526.40
$
3,181.30
$
2,248.00
$
3,161.50
$
1,347.60
$
921.10
$
1,676.60
$
1,220.10
$
1,196.40
$
596.40
$
1,606.35
$
1,727.20
$
2,111.88
$
1,521.00
$
1,571.25
$
1,550.43
$
1,578.60
$
1,803.20
$
1,730.90
$
1,612.08
$
1,701.50
$
1,617.78
$
1,609.35
$
1,228.66
$
1,471.20
$
1,848.90
$
1,784.00
$
1,572.30
$
1,545.93
$
1,576.55
$
1,692.10
$
2,589.30
$
1,652.50
$
1,672.10
$
1,593.30
$
1,652.10
$
1,633.30
$
420.00
$
1,552.50
$
1,797.90
$
1,220.00
$
1,681.50
$
1,652.50
$
710.90
$
1,603.10
$
2,536.00
$
4,215.25
$
1,596.00
$
3,231.50
$
1,213.70
$
1,677.50
$
1,586.00
$
8,871.50
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
__
__
__
__
__
__
_
________
$
113,224.91

TOTAL

2079

The City Record

144

August 22, 2001

Section 2. It is determined that the assessments do not exceed the special benefits resulting from the improvement and do not exceed the statutory limit.
Section 3. That the owners of the several lots and parcels of land included in said assessment shall pay the
amounts from them severally due, as set forth in Section 1 above, to the City Treasurer within forty (40) days
from and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, and in default thereof said tax, together with a penalty
of five percent (5%) and interest not to exceed seven and one half percent (7.5%) per annum, shall be payable
to the County Treasurer in five (5) annual installments, and the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is
hereby authorized and directed to certify all unpaid assessments to the Cuyahoga County Auditor to be entered
on the tax duplicate.
Section 4. That the Superintendent of Sidewalks is authorized and directed to keep the assessments on file in
his office for so long as any of the assessments remain unpaid.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of the levy of
assessment herein provided for to be filed with the County Auditor within twenty (20) days following the passage of this Ordinance.
Section 6. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1247-01.
By Councilmen Coats, O’Malley and Polensek (by departmental request).
An ordinance to assess the cost and expense of construction and repairing of sidewalks and curbing. (W. 32nd
St. and Darwin Ave. Assessment).
Whereas, pursuant to Resolution No. 1095-97 adopted June 16, 1997, written notice requiring the laying, relaying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, and gutters, and/or castings, including adjustments of
utility boxes, where necessary, in front of premises hereinafter set forth was duly served upon the owners in the
manner prescribed by law, but which work was not undertaken by the owners of said premises, the same being
done by the City of Cleveland, pursuant to Section 165 of the Charter; and,
Whereas, the Director of Finance has reported to this Council on the 18th day of July, 2001, all of the expenses
of such construction and repairing by the City of Cleveland, and,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the purpose of paying for the cost and expense of constructing and repairing of sidewalks,
driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings, including adjustments of utility boxes, where necessary, there
be and hereby is levied and assessed upon the following described property abutting said improvements situated
in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, the following respective amounts:
PERMANENT
PARCEL

OWNER
NAMES

LOCATION
ADDRESS

TOTAL
AMOUNT

011-16-034
011-16-035
011-16-036
011-16-037
011-16-065
011-16-066
011-17-053
011-17-054
011-21-073
011-21-107
011-21-139
011-21-140
011-22-002
011-22-003
011-22-004
011-22-006
011-22-007
011-22-008
011-22-009
011-22-010
011-22-033
011-22-034
011-22-058
112-23-034
112-23-035
112-24-156
112-24-157
112-24-158
112-24-159
112-24-160

A. KUCZYNSKI
DAVID HAMILTON
JAMES R ROUSH
CYNTHIA L. MAKUH
JANINA J. BALAO
ANTHONY S. ARTINO
WM. C. BRYANT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
GARY M. DEROSHA
MARY E. FRANKS
CHERYL M. TANCAK
SHAYNE M. VENTURA
ROBERT J. HOLZ
ALEXANDER KOVALSKY
RAYMOND JOHNSON III
EMILY M. WOOS
FRANK H. FRINK
JOSEPH VARGUS
ANTHONY C. DANGELO
SUSAN L. MRUK
DAVID A. HROMADA
LEONARD E. GLIVA
CHRISTINE PRATNICKI
JEWELL A. HAWKINS
CHARLES A. ALLEN
CHARLES SANDERS
NAPOLEON COCKRELL
CITY OF CLEVELAND
MINNIE L. SPEARS
CITY OF CLEVELAND

3204 BADER AVE.
4746 W. 32ND STREET
4742 W. 32ND STREET
3201 ARCHMERE AVE.
3200 ARCHMERE AVE.
3201 OAK PARK AVE.
3121 OAK PARK AVE.
4741 W.32ND STREET
3302 SILVERDALE AVE.
3302 RALPH AVE.
3203 BADER AVE.
4774 W. 32ND STREET
4755 W. 32ND STREET
4759 W. 32ND STREET
4763 W. 32ND STREET
4775 W. 32ND STREET
4781 W. 32ND STREET
4785 W. 32ND STREET
3132 WALBROOK AVE.
3131 SILVERDALE AVE.
3132 SILVERDALE AVE.
3121 RALPH AVE.
3122 RALPH AVE.
14315 DARWIN AVE.
14319 DARWIN AVE.
14709 DARWIN AVE.
14705 DARWIN AVE.
14701 DARWIN AVE.
14615 DARWIN AVE.
14611 DARWIN AVE.

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

2080

3,130.04
1,393.24
1,255.04
1,718.54
3,243.32
3,597.14
12,907.60
1,340.00
2,310.40
3,718.30
3,108.10
2,923.60
1,124.34
1,401.30
1,446.90
1,404.54
1,112.70
1,296.90
3,169.04
3,754.08
3,526.80
3,706.90
3,090.70
628.25
547.40
941.10
1,321.50
630.00
801.50
630.00

August 22, 2001
112-24-161
112-24-162
112-24-163
112-24-164
112-24-165
112-24-166
112-24-167
112-24-168
112-24-169
112-24-170
112-24-171
112-24-173
112-24-174
112-25-029
112-25-030
112-25-031
112-25-032
112-25-033
112-25-034
112-25-037
112-25-038
112-25-039
112-25-040
112-25-041
112-25-042
112-25-043
112-25-044
112-25-045
112-26-001
112-26-002
112-26-003
112-26-005
112-26-006
112-26-007
112-26-008
112-26-009
112-26-010
112-26-012
112-26-013
112-26-014
112-26-016
112-26-017
112-26-018
112-26-019
112-26-020
112-26-021
112-26-022
112-26-023
112-26-024
112-27-003

The City Record
JUANA G. PEREZ
BYRON HOPKINS
WILLIAM TINSLEY
WILLIAM L. SHIVERS
WILLIAM TINSLEY
MARY MOORE
MARY MOORE
RICHARD PAYNE SR.
MICHAEL A. ALEXANDER
LENORA WOMACK
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
ALLTRINNA GRAYSON
MAMIE B. FLEMING
WILLIAM S. SPOFFORD
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
RUFUS SHANNON
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
RUFUS SHANNON
TOM C. JETER
EMMA WILLIAMS
BYRON HOPKINS
EYVONNE DAVIS
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
JUDY MONROE
DESHUN S DURDEN
CARMILLA CARMICHAEL
JOHN KING
SYRACUSE ADHESIVES
SYRACUSE ADHESIVES
AARON M. BROWN
NICOLLETA S. WALTON
DEBORAH HOWARD
LUELLA HARVEY
IRENE WYLEY
ANGELO SIMS
STAR BANK NA
RENITA N. STORY
ROMETTA J. GRIFFIN
ROCHELLE McNORTON
GWENDOLYN RAINES
NANNIE M. TURNER
PHILLIP JAMES
KAY F. RUFUS
RALPH N. WILLIAMS
STARKS EARL
CHRISTINA LANDERS
JACQUELINE GRAYSON
SOURCE ONE MORTG.
CONRAIL CORP.

14605
14523
14515
14511
14507
14505
14503
14501
14417
14415
14411
14405
14401
15105
15101
15015
15009
15005
15001
14913
14907
14901
14817
14817
14809
14805
14801
14719
14516
14512
14500
14416
14412
14410
14404
14400
14320
14312
14308
14304
14218
14214
14210
14208
14204
14202
14118
14114
14108
14617

145
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
SARANAC AVE.

TOTAL

$
1,056.30
$
777.00
$
1,553.20
$
695.00
$
909.00
$
100.00
$
560.00
$
574.25
$
622.00
$
462.00
$
445.00
$
728.00
$
388.50
$
3,158.50
$
920.00
$
520.00
$
514.50
$
1,363.10
$
634.38
$
691.40
$
1,075.40
$
1,012.20
$
890.00
$
1,450.00
$
472.50
$
1,309.40
$
1,342.20
$
1,048.20
$
819.00
$
420.00
$
547.40
$
763.75
$
885.50
$
537.60
$
500.00
$
560.88
$
828.20
$
527.80
$
567.00
$
37.60
$
1,034.00
$
959.00
$
567.00
$
562.10
$
763.00
$
627.00
$
628.25
$
636.30
$
562.30
$
22,189.00
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
__
__
__
__
__
_
_________
$
131,973.98

Section 2. It is determined that the assessments do not exceed the special benefits resulting from the improvement and do not exceed the statutory limit.
Section 3. That the owners of the several lots and parcels of land included in said assessment shall pay the
amounts from them severally due, as set forth in Section 1 above, to the City Treasurer within forty (40) days
from and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, and in default thereof said tax, together with a penalty
of five percent (5%) and interest not to exceed seven and one half percent (7.5%) per annum, shall be payable
to the County Treasurer in five (5) annual installments, and the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is
hereby authorized and directed to certify all unpaid assessments to the Cuyahoga County Auditor to be entered
on the tax duplicate.
Section 4. That the Superintendent of Sidewalks is authorized and directed to keep the assessments on file in
his office for so long as any of the assessments remain unpaid.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of the levy of
assessment herein provided for to be filed with the County Auditor within twenty (20) days following the passage
of this Ordinance.
Section 6. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2081

146
Ord. No. 1337-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with A Cultural Exchange for
The Read, Baby, Read, Book Club
through the use of Ward 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with A Cultural Exchange for The
Read, Baby, Read, Book Club, for
the public purpose of providing educational services for the students in
Ward 19 that attend the following
elementary schools, Brooklawn, McKinley, Louis Agassiz, Riverside, St.
Mels, St. Vincent DePaul and St.
Ignatius of Antioch, through the use
of Ward 19 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1339-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to enter
into an agreement with Collinwood
Community Services Center to fund
an elderly services program for
senior citizens that are on fixed
income, through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Collinwood Community Services Center to fund an
elderly services program for senior
citizens that are on fixed income,
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1340-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Kenneth W. Clement
School - Cleveland Public School District for purchase of classroom furniture for Cleveland Public School
children through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Kenneth W. Clement School Cleveland Public School District for
purchase of classroom furniture for
Cleveland Public School children, for
the public purpose of providing
desks and chairs for computer classroom instruction through the use of
Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1341-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1776-A-90, passed April 22, 1991, as
amended by Ordinance No. 960-99,
passed June 7, 1999, and Ordinance
No. 2093-99, passed December 13,
1999, relating to establishing the
City of Cleveland as a Community
Reinvestment Area, except the area
defined as the “Downtown Plan
Area” by the Civic Vision 2000 Plan;
and to repeal Ordinance No 1089-01,
passed June 4, 2001.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 108901, passed June 4, 2001, is hereby
repealed.

2082

August 22, 2001
Section 2. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance
No.
1776-A-90,
passed
April 22, 1991, as amended by Ordinance No. 960-99, passed June 7, 1999,
and Ordinance No. 2093-99, passed
December
13,
1999,
are
hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. Based upon information
and data presented to the Council
and contained in File No. 1776-A-90A, it is hereby found and determined
that the City of Cleveland, except
the area defined as the “Downtown
Plan Area” by the Civic Vision 2000
Plan, and excepting from the Downtown Plan Area, the area described
and contained in File No. 1089-01-A,
is a blighted and deteriorated area,
and is an area in which housing
facilities or structures of historical
significance are located and new
construction and repair or existing
facilities or structures are discouraged.
This finding of blight and
deterioration shall in no way be construed as a finding of slum and
blight for purposes of an eminent
domain action against any property
located in the area described herein.
Section 2. That, all of the area
within the municipal boundaries of
the City of Cleveland, except the
area defined as the “Downtown Plan
Area” by the Civic Vision 2000 Plan,
and excepting from the Downtown
Plan Area, the area described and
contained in File No. 1089-01-A, is
hereby designated a Community
Reinvestment Area pursuant to Section 3735.65 et seq., of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 3. That existing Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 1776-A-90,
passed April 22, 1991, as amended by
Ordinance No. 960-99, passed June 7,
1999, and Ordinance No. 2093-99,
passed December 13, 1999, are hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1347-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan for the purchase,
rehabilitation
or
construction
of
rental and for sale housing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan in the amount of
$5,000,000.00 for the purchase, reha-

August 22, 2001
bilitation or construction of rental
and for sale housing in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan shall be determined by the
Director of Community Development
in accordance with regulations, federal, state and local law, and said
Director is authorized to amend said
terms from time to time, as deemed
necessary to remain consistent with
said laws and regulations.
Section 3. That the cost of said
contract shall be paid from Fund No.
14 SC 810, Request No. 45709.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development shall obtain an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument shall be approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in the CDBG fund.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. Such fees shall be deposited
into the CDBG fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
the contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete
the
transaction
authorized
hereunder.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1348-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with the Boys and Girls
Clubs of Cleveland for economic
assistance to finance the development of a recreational facility on
Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with the Boys and Girls
Clubs of Cleveland for economic
assistance to finance the development of a recreational facility on
Broadway Avenue, in the total sum
of $200,000.00, payable from Fund
No. 14 SF 026, Request No. 45708.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said grant agreement and such
other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1349-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56549
with W.E.B. DuBois Community Center for additional rehabilitation program costs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56549
with
W.E.B.
DuBois
Community
Center for additional rehabilitation
program costs and to increase the
amount of the contract by $58,800.00,
for a total of $182,161.00. Said
increase shall be paid from Fund
No. 14 SF 026, Request No. 45711.
Section 2. That this First Amendment shall be prepared and approved by the Director of Law and
shall contain such provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1350-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to amend Contract No.
56705 with Kamm’s Corners Community
Development
Corporation
for the redevelopment of the southeast quadrant of the existing parking lot.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 748-2000, passed June 12, 2000,
the Director of Community Development entered into Contract No. 56705
with Kamm’s Corners Community
Development Corporation to redevelop the southeast quadrant of the
existing parking lot; and
Whereas, additional improvements
to
the
southeast
quadrant
are
desired; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

2083

147
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to amend Contract No. 56705
with Kamm’s Corners Community
Development Corporation to provide
additional
improvements
to
the
southeast quadrant of the existing
parking lot and to increase the
amount of the contract by $80,000.
Said increase shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 026, Request No.
45712.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1352-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Office of Criminal Justice Services
for
the
Second
District Project,
Domestic Violence Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is hereby authorized to apply for and accept a grant
in the amount of $18,227, from the
Office of Criminal Justice Services,
to conduct the Second District Project, Domestic Violence Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Finance, on behalf of
the Cleveland Municipal Court, is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
they hereby are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the application
for said grant.
Section 2. That the application
for said grant, File No. 1352-01-A,
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten
herein,
including
the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in
the sum of $18,228, payable from
Fund Nos. 01-011501-500500 and 01011501-639905, is hereby approved in
all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

148
Ord. No. 1353-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Office of Criminal
Justice Services for the Cleveland
Municipal Court Soliciting/Prostitution, Project HOPE Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $68,219, from the Office
of Criminal Justice Services, to conduct the Cleveland Municipal Court
Soliciting/Prostitution, Project HOPE
Program, for the purposes set forth
in the application and according
thereto; that the Director of Finance,
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, is hereby authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
said grant; and that said funds be
and they hereby are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the application for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1353-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$40,065, payable from Fund Nos. 01011501-500500 and 01-011501-639905, is
hereby approved in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1354-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to service and maintain
police aircraft, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year with four oneyear options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract
in accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements
for the period of one year, with four
(4) options exercisable by the Director of Public Safety, to renew for an
additional one-year terms, and cancellable upon thirty days written
notice by said Director, for the necessary items of labor and materials

The City Record
necessary to service and maintain
police aircraft, including labor if
necessary,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 37581)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1356-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Department of Justice, Office of
Criminal Justice Services, for the
2002 Caribbean Gang Task Force
Program; and to enter into contracts
necessary to implement the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $86,373.00, from the
Department of Justice, Office of
Criminal Justice Services, to conduct
the 2002 Caribbean Gang Task
Force Program, for the purposes set
forth in the application and according thereto; that the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1356-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the amount
of $28,791.00, payable from Fund No.
10 SF 025, is hereby approved in all
respects.

2084

August 22, 2001
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of the
grant authorized by this ordinance
for the necessary items of equipment needed to implement the program, as described in the application. The cost of said contract is
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than the grant term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire term.
The cost of each contract shall be
charged against the fund or funds
to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director and
from cash matching funds identified
in Section 2 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1357-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice,
OCJS, for the Cleveland Team Approach to Violence Against Women
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount of $40,857, from the United
States Department of Justice, OCJS,
to
conduct
the
Cleveland Team
Approach
to
Violence
Against
Women Program, for the purposes
set forth in the application and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Safety is hereby authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that said
funds be and they hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in
the application for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1357-01-A, made

August 22, 2001
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$13,619 from Fund Nos. 01-600200507000 and 01-600200-500500, is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1358-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Department of Justice, Office of
Community Oriented Policing Services for the COPS In Schools Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount
of
$2,500,000,
from
the
Department of Justice, Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, to
conduct the COPS In Schools Program, for the purposes set forth in
the application and according thereto; that the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
said grant; and that said funds be
and they hereby are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the application for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1358-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$901,980, payable from Fund No. 01600200-507000, is hereby approved in
all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1359-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the STEP 2002 Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $66,636.00, from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety, to
conduct the STEP 2002 Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1359-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1360-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1427-2000, passed August 7, 2000,
relating to a grant for the 2000-2001
Emergency Medical Services Grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1427-2000,
passed August 7, 2000, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the 2000-2001 Emergency Medical Services Grant; and to enter into
a requirement contract for the purchase of equipment or supplies necessary to implement the program.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $224,599.60, from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety to
conduct the 2000-2001 Emergency
medical Services Grant, for the purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Safety is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 14272000, passed August 7, 2000, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

2085

149
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1361-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Lewis
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 627.10 of the Codified Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
as
amended by Ordinance No. 1359-91,
passed July 24, 1991, relating to possessing certain weapons at or about
public places.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 627.10 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1359-91, passed July 24, 1991, is
hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 627.10 Possessing Certain
Weapons at or About Public Places
(a) No person shall knowingly
carry, have in his possession or
ready at hand any handgun, BB
gun, pellet gun, dangerous ordnance, shotgun, rifle, knife having a
blade two and one-half inches in
length or longer, brass knuckles,
cestus, billy, karate stick, blackjack, sword or saber while at or
about a public place.
(b) As used in this section, “public place” means any place to which
the general public has access and a
right to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose,
but does not necessarily mean a
place devoted solely to the uses of
the public. It also includes the front
or immediate area of any store,
shop, restaurant, tavern or other
place of business and any grounds,
areas or parks where persons would
congregate.
(c) This section does not apply to
officers, agents or employees of this
or any other state or the United
States, to law enforcement officers
authorized to carry or possess deadly weapons or to persons with private or special police commissions,
and acting within the scope of their
duties.
(d) This section shall not apply if
any weapon in division (a) of this
section was part of a public weapon
display, show or exhibition, or was
in the possession of a person participating in an organized match,
competition or practice session.
(e) It is an affirmative defense to
a charge under this section that the
actor was not otherwise prohibited
by law from possessing the weapon,
and that the weapon was kept ready
at hand by the actor for defense purposes, while he was engaged in his
lawful
business
or
occupation,
which business or occupation was of
such character or at such a place as
to render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as
would justify a prudent man in having the weapon ready at hand.
(f) It is an affirmative defense to
a charge under this section that the

150
actor was not otherwise prohibited
by law from possessing a knife having a blade two and one-half inches
in length or longer, and that either
(i) the actor at the time was
engaged in a lawful business or pursuit and that business or pursuit
requires a knife having a blade two
and one-half inches in length or
longer as a tool of trade or pursuit,
or (ii) the knife having a blade two
and one-half inches in length or
longer was kept ready at hand by
the actor for defense purposes,
while he was engaged in his lawful
business or occupation, which business or occupation was of such character or at such a place as to render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as
would justify a prudent man in having such a knife ready at hand.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 601.13 and division
(a) of Section 601.99, whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing certain weapons on or about
public places and shall be fined not
less than three hundred dollars
($300.00), nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and imprisoned for not less than three (3)
days, nor more than six (6) months.
No part of this sentence shall, in
any case whatsoever, be suspended
or otherwise reduced.
Section 2. That existing Section
627.10 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1359-91, passed July
24, 1991, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1511-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Ordinance
No. 1961-2000, passed June 11, 2001,
relating
to
an
easement
to
Ameritech
for
certain
property
rights in property located at Old
Grayton Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1, 2, 4 and
5 of Ordinance No. 1961-2000, passed
June 11, 2001, are hereby amended
to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that easement interests
in the following described property
are no longer needed for public use:
Brookpark Road Project
Easements for Ameritech
Parcel A
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 4.

The City Record
Starting at the intersection of the
centerline of existing Brookpark
Road (a.k.a. State Route 17), 100.00
feet wide, and existing Old Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 37° 43' 44" East
along the said centerline of existing
Old Grayton Road, 158.53 feet;
Thence South 52° 16' 16" East,
30.00 feet to a point in the Southeasterly line of existing Old Grayton Road, at the Principal Place of
Beginning of the easement herein
intended to be described;
Thence North 37° 43' 44" East
along the said Southeasterly line of
existing Old Grayton Road, 56.09
feet to its intersection with the
Westerly line of proposed Relocated
Grayton Road;
Thence South 19° 55' 30" East
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
23.39 feet to the Northerly end of a
50.00 foot radius turnout to the
Northerly line of proposed Relocated Brookpark Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said
turnout by a curve to the right, an
arc distance of 13.42 feet, said arc
having a radius of 50.00 feet and a
chord which bears South 12° 14' 13"
East, 13.38 feet;
Thence South 37° 43' 44" West,
38.88 feet;
Thence North 52° 16' 16" West,
29.78 feet to a point in a 35.00 foot
radius turnout between the Northerly line of existing Brookpark Road
and the said Southeasterly line of
existing Old Grayton Road;
Thence Northeasterly along said
turnout by a curve to the right, an
arc distance of 3.92 feet, said arc
having a radius of 35.00 feet and a
chord which bears North 34° 31' 20"
East, 3.91 feet to the Principal Place
of Beginning and containing 0.0346
acres of land as described on October 9, 2000 by R.M. Kole & Assoc.,
Inc., Professional Land Surveyors.
Brookpark Road Project
Easements for Ameritech
Parcel B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 4.
Starting at the intersection of the
centerlines of existing Brookpark
Road (a.k.a. State Route 17), 100.00
feet wide, and existing Old Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 89° 45' 56" East
along the said centerline of existing
Brookpark Road, 0.78 feet;
Thence Northeasterly along the
centerline of proposed Relocated
Brookpark Road by a curve to the
left, an arc distance of 231.14 feet,
said arc having a radius of 674.07
feet and a chord which bears North
79° 53' 55" East, 230.01 feet to its
intersection with the centerline of
proposed
Relocated
Old
Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 19° 55' 30" West
along the said centerline of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
128.99 feet;
Thence South 70° 04' 30" West,
30.00 feet to a point in the Westerly line of said proposed Relocated
Grayton Road, at its intersection
with the Southeasterly line of existing Old Grayton Road, said point
also being the Principal Place of
Beginning of the easement herein
intended to be described;
Thence South 37° 43' 44" West,
11.84 feet;
Thence North 19° 55' 30" West,
53.97;

2086

August 22, 2001
Thence Northeasterly by a curve
to the right, an arc distance of 568.68
feet, said arc having a radius of
420.00 feet and a chord which bears
North 18° 51' 51" East, 526.22 feet;
Thence North 57° 39' 11" East,
240.86 feet;
Thence Northeasterly by a curve
to the left, an arc distance of 140.94
feet, said arc having a radius of
340.00 feet and a chord which bears
North 45° 46' 40" East, 139.93 feet;
Thence North 33° 54' 08" East,
37.63 feet to a point in the Westerly
line of existing Old Grayton Road;
Thence South 19° 01' 18" West
along the said Westerly line of
existing Old Grayton Road, 38.94
feet to its intersection with the
Westerly line of said proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road;
Thence Southwesterly along the
said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road by a curve
to the right, an arc distance of
145.09 feet, said arc having a radius
of 350.00 feet and a chord which
bears South 45° 46' 40" West, 144.05
feet;
Thence South 57° 39' 11" West
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
240.86 feet;
Thence Southwesterly along the
said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road by a curve
to the left, an arc distance of 555.14
feet, said arc having a radius of
410.00 feet and a chord which bears
South 18° 51' 51" West, 513.69 feet;
Thence South 19° 55' 30" East
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
47.64 feet to the Principal Place of
Beginning and containing 0.2331
acres of land as described on March
8, 2001 by R.M. Kole & Assoc., Inc.,
Professional Land Surveyors.
Section 2. That the easements
shall be non-exclusive and the purpose of the easement shall be to construct and maintain a vault along
Old Grayton Road (Parcel A), and
to install and maintain telecommunications lines (Parcel B).
Section 4. That the duration of the
easements shall be determined by
the Board of Control; that the easements shall include reasonable right
of entry rights to the City; that the
easements shall be assignable only
upon the prior approval of the Cleveland City Council; that the easements shall require the grantee to
indemnify the City, provide reasonable
insurance,
maintain
any
grantee improvements located within the easement, including, appropriate
landscaping
around
each
improvement in order to conceal
such improvement, and pay any
applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyances
shall be made by Official Deed of
Easement prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
The Deeds of
Easement shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are
required to protect the interests of
the parties. The Directors of Port
Control and Law are authorized to
execute
such
other
documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect the construction
of the vault along Old Grayton
Road
and
the
installation
of
telecommunications lines authorized
herein.
Section 2. That existing Sections
1, 2, 4 and 5 of Ordinance No. 19612000, passed June 11, 2001, are hereby repealed.

August 22, 2001
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1512-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 863-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, relating to a
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract with St. Vincent
Quadrangle, Inc., or its designee, to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition, rehabilitation and conversion
of the Tower Press Building into
live/work affordable rental housing,
located at 1900 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 863-2000, passed June 19,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the terms of said
contract shall comply with the
requirements of the Neighborhood
Development Investment Program
and NDIF, as set forth in Section 1
of Ordinance No. 56-94, passed June
13, 1994, as amended by Ordinance
No. 2123-96, passed February 10,
1997, and shall be in accordance
with the terms as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
File No. 863-2000-B.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 863-2000, passed
June 19, 2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1513-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for
Afterschool
Music Program through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for an Afterschool

The City Record
Music Program for the public purpose of providing music education to
area youth, through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $7,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1514-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement
with
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development
Corporation
for
a
Senior Citizen Social Support Program through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Department of Aging is authorized
to enter into an agreement with for
a Senior Citizen Social Support Program as described in file no. 151401-A for the public purpose of providing educational and recreational
activities to senior citizens, through
the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1515-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
Commission to enter into an agreement
with
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corporation for Neighborhood Master Plan through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.

2087

151
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for Neighborhood
Master Plan, for the area between
East 105th Street to Stokes Blvd. to
Woodhill Road to determine best
use, through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $100,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1516-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Department of
Health to enter into an agreement
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for Central Avenue
Remediation through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Department of Health is authorized
to enter into an agreement with
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation
for
Central
Avenue
Remediation in order to complete a
Phase
I
and
II
environmental
assessment on City owned land
located at East 83rd Street and Central Avenue, through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

152
Ord. No. 1517-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
provide free parking for a Special
Event reception for Bishop Roger
Gries on August 22, 2001, between
6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., at Willard
Park Garage.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any ordinance to the contrary, the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
is
hereby
authorized
and
directed to provide free parking at
Willard Park Garage on August 22,
2001, between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
and 9:00 p.m., for attendees at a
reception in the Rotunda of Cleveland City Hall for Bishop Roger
Gries.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1518-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Turkey Trot Race on
November 22, 2001, sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Turkey Trot Race
sponsored by Hermes Race Systems
on November 22, 2001, beginning
with a 1 mile fun walk starting
inside Burke Lakefront Airport Driveway, exits the entrance driveway
and proceeds eastbound on the North
Marginal to just before the curve
and turns around to go westbound
on the North Marginal where it reenters where it came out. The 5K
run steps off from airport driveway
and leaves through the entrance
drive proceeding westbound on the
North
Marginal
down
Erieside
around the stadium, southbound on
W. 3rd Rd. to Lakeside, westbound
on Lakeside down under the bridge
to W. 9th where it turns onto Front
Street and goes to W. 10th, turning
southbound to St. Clair, runners turn
up the St. Clair hill and proceed
eastbound on St. Clair to W. 3rd
where they turn northbound onto W.
3rd and go to Lakeside where they
turn eastbound and go down Lakeside to E. 9th, runners turn northbound onto E. 9th, staying in the
west curb lane and go to the exit

The City Record
ramp (curb lane-coned off) and
wrap around the Amtrak Station
and then proceed eastbound on to
the South Marginal. At E. 26th, they
cross over the freeway and then proceed westbound onto the North Marginal where they finish inside the
Airport, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1519-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Jake to the Rock on
September 22, 2001, sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Jake the Rock,
sponsored by Hermes Race Systems,
on September 22, 2001, with the race
beginning at East 9th Street and
Carnegie Avenue and running down
East 9th Street and finishing in
front of the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2088

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1520-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Light the Night Walk
on September 22, 2001, sponsored by
the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Light the Night
Walk sponsored by the Leukemia &
Lymphoma Society on September 22,
2001, starting at the Galleria, participants will head north on East
9th down to the Pier and circle to
head south on East 9th passing the
Galleria giving anyone who would
like to stop walking the opportunity to go back into the mall. Walkers will resume traveling south to
St. Clair, turning right and traveling west on St. Clair, turning left
onto Ontario and traveling south on
Ontario, upon reaching Eagle Road
walkers will turn left onto Eagle
Road traveling through the Gateway Sports Complex to E. 9th Street,
turning right onto E. 9th Street and
traveling north on E. 9th Street. Participants will take East 9th Street
north back to the Galleria, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1521-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Tremont West Development Corporation for the Phoenix Development Project through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Tremont West Development
Corporation as an agent for the City
in arranging second mortgage assistance by the City to individuals and
families for the Phoenix Development Project for the public purpose

The City Record

August 22, 2001
ensuring affordability of new residential housing for low to moderate
income families, through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1522-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Cintron, Melena and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Near West Side Multi-Service Center for HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program through
the use of Ward 13, 14, 17, 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Near West Side Multi-Service
Center
for
HIV/AIDS
Education/Prevention Program for the
public purpose of providing education, outreach, counseling, and case
management services to teens and

153
young adults residing in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
13, 14, 17, 18 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $38,651 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1523-01.
By Councilman Cintron (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Clark-Metro Development Corporation to hang 11-banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) which will
encroach into the public right-of-way between W. 41st St. & Clark Ave. & on Fulton, Daisy, Barber & Wade Aves.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the consent of the Director of Public Service to Clark-Metro Development Corporation, 2511 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, its successors and assigns, to install, maintain and
remove eleven (11) banners to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) and
which banners will encroach into the public right-of-way between West 41st Street and Clark Avenue and on Fulton Road, Daisy Avenue, Barber Avenue and Wade Avenue at the following numbers and locations:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

1) W. 25th & Daisy (East Side)

# MELP 38337

2) W. 25th & I-71 (just South)

# MELP 38569

3) W. 41st at Clark (near SW corner)

# AOM 3533

4) W. 41st at Clark (near NW corner)

# 37947 MELP

5) Fulton at Clark (near SW corner)

# 40444 CPP

6) 2704 Clark Ave.

# AOM 911

7) 3211 Clark Ave.

# AOM9-105

8) W. 25th & Clark Ave. (NW corner)

# AOM9-116

9) W. 25th & Clark (SW corner)

# A09-115

10) W. 25th & Barber (NW corner)

# A582

11) W. 25th & Wade (SE corner)

No Tag Number

Section 2. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way of portions of the streets as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this Ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this Ordinance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2089

154
Ord. No. 1524-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
MetroHealth
to
hang
25-banners
which will encroach into the rightof-way of Scranton Rd., W. 25th St.,
Sackett Ave., Southpoint & MetroHealth Drives, on Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of September 1, 2001 to September 30, 2001,
inclusive, to publicize their special
event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to MetroHealth, 2500 MetroHealth Drive,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44109-1988,
to
install, maintain and remove twenty-six (26) banners to be hung on
Cleveland
Public
Power
utility
poles,
(by
separate
permission)
publicizing their special event, for
the period of September 1, 2001 to
September 30, 2001, inclusive, publicizing
their special
event, and
which banners are to be hung at
the following pole locations and on
the following pole numbers: Scranton Road – 10 poles between Sackett and Southpoint (W), No Numbers or Tags on Poles; 1st Pole N.
of W. 25th (W) – No Number or Tag
on
Pole;
West
25th
–
8-poles
between Sackett and Southpoint
(E), No Numbers or Tags on Poles;
1-Pole S. of Southpoint (E), #AOM41-125; 1-Pole at 3517 W. 25th (E),
No Pole Numbers or Tags; MetroHealth Drive – 3-Poles between W.
25th and Scranton, No Numbers or
Tags on Poles; Southpoint Drive –
2-Poles between W. 25th and Scranton, No Number or Tags on Poles;
and which poles location and banners shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which banners will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial advertising shall be
printed or permitted on said banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1525-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Ignatius/Cats in
the Flats on September 23, 2001,
sponsored by St. Ignatius High
School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the St. Ignatius/Cats
in the Flats Run sponsored by the
St. Ignatius High School on September 23, 2001, beginning at St.
Ignatius High School West 30th
Street and Lorain, proceed east on
Lorain across West 25th Gehring
(RTA Rapid Station), right onto
Gehring to Abbey, left onto Abbey
to Columbus, left on Columbus to
Carter Rd., right onto Carter Rd. to
Scranton, right onto Scranton to
Kenilworth, left onto Kenilworth to
Literary, bear left onto Literary to
Professor, right onto Professor to
Jefferson, right onto Jefferson to
Starkweather,
right
onto
Starkweather to Scranton, right onto
Scranton to Willey/Kenilworth, left
onto Willey to Train Avenue, right
onto Train Ave., to Scranton, left
onto Scranton to Carter, left on
Carter
to
Columbus,
left
onto
Columbus to Abbey, right on Abbey
to Gehring, right on Gehring to
Lorain, left on Lorain to West 29th,
right onto St. Ignatius track and
finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1526-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance a u t h orizing certain persons to engage
in peddling in Ward 14. (Cory
Boda)

2090

August 22, 2001
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council, expressed by ordinance, is a
prerequisite
to
mobile
peddling
upon the public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside
of the Central Business District,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 14;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14:
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1527-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 14. (Clarinda
Robinson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council, expressed by ordinance, is a
prerequisite
to
mobile
peddling
upon the public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside
of the Central Business District,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 14;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

August 22, 2001
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14: Clarinda
Robinson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1528-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Brady.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 367.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
665-67, passed, May 8, 1967, relating
to disbursal of funds from escrow
agents.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 367.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 665-67, passed May 8, 1967,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 367.13 Disbursal of Funds
from Escrow Agent
No person, firm or corporation
acting in the capacity of an escrow
agent in any real estate transaction
involving
the
sale
of
a
dwelling building or structure situated in the City, shall disburse
any funds unless the provisions of
Section 367.12 have been met and
the person, agent, firm or corporation
selling
an
interest
in
a
dwelling building or structure has
provided the escrow agent and
buyer with a copy of any violations issued pursuant to Housing
Code.
Section 2. That existing Section
367.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 665-67, passed May 8,
1967, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1529-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with EBC Fery Development
Corporation for After School Community Outreach Program through
the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with EBC Fery Development Corporation for After School Community Outreach Program for the public purpose tutoring Cleveland public school students for proficiency
testing, and special fitness training programs, through the use of
Ward
10
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $52,620 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1530-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 32301, passed February 26, 2001, extending the residency compliance
period for John T. Novak.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance
323-01,
passed
February
26,2001, is hereby amended to read
as follows:

2091

155
Section 1. That, for purposes of
compliance
with
the
residency
requirement set forth in Section 74
of the Charter for John T. Novak,
this Council of the City of Cleveland hereby extends the period for
compliance until six months following
Mr.
Novak’s
assignment
with the U.S. Army Reserve or no
later than March 1, 2002, whichever
is sooner, at which time Mr. Novak
must comply with Section 74 of the
Charter.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance
323-01,
passed
February
26,2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1531-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Port Control to
extend the date for applying for participation in the sound insulation
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
notwithstanding, pursuant to Ordinance No. 2318-2000, passed December 18, 2000, the Director of Port
Control was directed to prepare
and publish a protocol for the
sound insulation program, with,
among other items, (a) the application deadline for the sound insulation program to be no sooner
than June 25, 2001; and (b) the protocol was to published at least
quarterly and furnished to the
branches of the Cleveland Public
Library located in or around the
noise impacted areas. The Director
of Port Control is hereby directed
to extend the application deadline
to a period no sooner than one (1)
year from the date of passage of
this legislation.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record

156

August 22, 2001

Ord. No. 1532-01.
By Councilman Gordon (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Archwood Denison Concerned Citizens to hang 26 banners which will encroach into the right-of-way on Pearl Rd., Denison Ave. & Fulton Rd. using C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission), identifying and locating the Archwood Denison Neighborhood area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to issue a permit to Archwood Denison Concerned Citizens, 3881 Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, its successors and assigns to construct, use and maintain
twenty-six (26) Neighborhood identification/location banners to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles,
(by separate permission), at the following pole numbers and locations:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

Pearl Road
S.W. Corner Riverside

# 38446

1st pole N. of Mapledale (W)

# 38448

Opp. NE Corner Willowdale (W)

# 38465

In front of Shopping Plaza (W)

# No Tag

SW Corner of Archwood (W)

# 38566

NW Corner of Garden (W)

# 38583

1st N. of Selzer (W)

# No Tag

Opp. YMCA (W)

# No Tag

Pearl Road
1st pole N. of Cemetery (E)

# No Tag

1st pole N. of Willowdale (E)

# No Tag

1st pole S. of Willowdale (E)

# 38484

SE Corner Dobson (E)

# No Tag

1st pole S. of Garden (E)

# No Tag

NW Corner Garden (E)

# 38583

At YMCA (E)

# VON2-82

Denison Avenue
Opp. SE Corner W. 31st (N)

# 36085

2nd pole W. of Pearl (N)

# 36082

NW Corner Pearl (N)

# 36080

2nd pole E. of Pearl (N)

# 38586

SW Corner of W. 24th (S)

# 38521

NW Corner W. 15th (N)

# No Tag

1st pole E. of W. 15th (N)

# No Tag

Fulton Road
1st pole S. of Freeway (W)

# No Tag

1st pole N. of Archwood (E)

# 33336

NE Corner Denison (E)

# No Tag

1st pole S. of Denison (E)

# No Tag

Section 2. That said banners will be hung within the public right-of-way of portions of the streets as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right,
privilege or permission to use or attach or affix any object to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2092

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1533-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Health to enter into a First
Amendment to City Contract No. 50407
with MetroHealth Medical Center.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 93-95, passed March 27, 1995, the
City of Cleveland, through its Director of Public Health, entered into a
Lease By Way of Concession with
MetroHealth Medical Center, Contract No. 50407, for the purposes of
operating outpatient health centers
known as the Thomas McCafferty
Health
Center,
located
at
4242
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio,
44113; the Miles-Broadway Health
Center,
located
at
9127
Miles
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, 44105; and
the J. Glen Smith Health Center,
located at 11100 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio, 44108; and
Whereas, the City and MetroHealth began its partnership in
operating the health centers in 1992
and Contract No. 50407 expanded the
role and duties of MetroHealth with
respect to the health centers; and
Whereas, as cited in Contract No.
50407, in entering into the partnership to operate the health centers,
the City and MetroHealth determined that the affiliation would: (i)
better provide for the health and
welfare of the people of the State of
Ohio, the County of Cuyahoga, and
the City of Cleveland, by enhancing
the
availability,
efficiency,
and
economy of Hospital Facilities, as
defined in Section 140.01 of the Ohio
Revised Code, and the services rendered thereby; (ii) provide for cooperation
between
the
City
and
MetroHealth in the utilization of the
shared facilities and services to
obtain economies in operation and
more effective health services; and
(iii) provide efficient operation of
facilities for health services of the
general public without discrimination by reason of race, creed, color
or national origin; and (iv) preserve
and enhance the similar missions
and objectives of the City and
MetroHealth; and
Whereas, the original term of Contract No. 50407 with MetroHealth
expired in June, 2000; however, since
that date, MetroHealth has continued to operate the health centers
and to provide for the medical needs
of the citizens of Cleveland on a
month-to-month basis pending resolution of negotiations concerning a
new lease; and
Whereas, by letter dated June 29,
2001, MetroHealth received a notice
from the Director of Public Health
to vacate the health centers immediately; and
Whereas, this Council is greatly
concerned about assuring that high
quality health care services are
accessible to all citizens of the City
of Cleveland regardless of their
social or economic circumstances; and
Whereas, this Council desires to
ensure that there is no gap in the
provision of health care services for
the residents of our city at the
McCafferty, Miles-Broadway, and J.
Glen Smith health centers; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, and safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 to
the contrary, the Director of Public

The City Record
Health is authorized and directed to
enter into a First Amendment to
Contract No. 50407 with MetroHealth
Medical Center extending the term
thereof until November 30, 2001, with
all other terms and conditions to
remain in effect.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Health shall work to ensure
that the residents of the City of
Cleveland have uninterrupted access
to primary health care at the health
centers and that the residents of
Cleveland continue to receive quality medical care at the McCafferty,
Miles-Broadway and J. Glen Smith
health facilities.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1534-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contracts with Medical Mutual of Ohio,
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, HMO Health Ohio, Kaiser Permanente, Aetna US Healthcare, Inc.
to provide medical and life insurance coverage for City employees;
and to enter into contract with Medical Mutual of Ohio to provide group
dental insurance for City employees;
and authorizing said Director to
enter into contract with a carrier to
provide
group
vision
insurance,
effective April 1, 2002, for eligible
City employees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Medical
Mutual of Ohio for SuperMed Plus
group preferred provider medical
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a twenty
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Medical
Mutual of Ohio for SuperMed Select
point of service-style health insurance coverage for City of Cleveland
employees for a twenty month term
commencing September 1, 2001, on
the basis of its proposal dated April
20, 2001, as amended.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for
group term life insurance coverage

2093

157
for City of Cleveland employees for
a twenty month term commencing
September 1, 2001, and for voluntary additional group term life
insurance coverage at no additional cost to the City, through Mutual
Health Services Company, Section
125 Premium Pass Through services.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with HMO
Health Ohio for health maintenance
organization-style
group
health
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a twenty
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 5. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Kaiser
Permanente for health maintenance
organization-style
group
health
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a twenty
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with Aetna U.S.
Healthcare, Inc. for health maintenance organization-style group health
insurance
coverage
for
City
of
Cleveland employees for a four
month term commencing September
1, 2001, on the basis of its proposal
dated April 20, 2001, as amended.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources is hereby authorized to
contract with Medical Mutual of
Ohio to provide group dental insurance coverage for eligible City of
Cleveland employees and officers
for a twenty month term commencing September 1, 2001.
Section 8. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to contract with
a carrier to provide group vision
insurance for eligible City employees.
The compensation to be paid
for such services shall be set by the
Board of Control.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1535-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 59th and 57th
Streets to Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc., or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

158
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-28-030,
118-28-050 and 118-28-051, as more
fully described below, to Burten,
Bell, Carr Development Inc., or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-28-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet 6 inches from
front to rear of Sublot No. 234 in
W.S. Chamberlain’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 334 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Said part of Sublot No. 234 has a
frontage of 30 feet 6 inches on the
Westerly side of East 59th Street
(formerly
First
Avenue),
and
extends back between parallel lines
150 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 118-28-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly part of Sublot No. 14 in
the W.S. Chamberlain’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Township Lot No. 334 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Southerly part of
Sublot No. 14 has a frontage of 25
feet on the Easterly side of East
57th Street (60 feet wide), extends
back between parallel lines 150 feet
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 14 and contains 0.0861
acres of land, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 118-28-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 25 feet front and rear of
Sublot No. 15 in W.B. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 334, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 25 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 57th Street
(formerly New Street), and extending back of equal width 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

The City Record
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1536-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling at East 40th Street and
Central Avenue in Ward 5. (Maria
K. Dimarhos)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Maria K.
Dimarhos at East 40th Street and
Central Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.

2094

August 22, 2001
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1537-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling at East 22nd Street and
Cedar Avenue in Ward 5. (Maria K.
Dimarhos)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Maria K.
Dimarhos at East 22nd Street and
Cedar Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1538-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Clyde Johnson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Clyde
Johnson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1539-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling at East 40th Street and
Woodland Avenue in Ward 5. (Emmanuel Konstantinou)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Emmanuel
Konstaninou at East 40th Street and
Woodland Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

The City Record
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1540-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (James Majors)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: James
Majors.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this
ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1541-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling
in
Ward
5.
(Clarinda
Robinson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

2095

159
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Clarinda
Robinson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1542-01.
By Councilmen Coats, Jackson,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to accept a grant from
the State of Ohio for the 2001 Water
Tower Project; and to enter into contract with FAMICOS Foundation for
painting and power washing eligible homes in the vicinity of Water
Tower Industrial Park.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept a grant in the
amount of $300,000, from the State of
Ohio, to conduct the 2001 Water
Tower Project, for the purposes set
forth in the award letter and according thereto; that the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the award letter
for said grant.
Section 2. That the award letter
for said grant, File No. 1542-01-A,
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with
FAMICOS
Foundation
for
implementation of the program as
described in the award letter contained in the file, payable from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance. (RL 45713)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

160
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1543-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with LTV Corporation and/or LTV Steel Company, Inc.
to provide for a ten year abatement
for certain tangible personal property and real estate taxes as an
incentive to expand and improve
their facility at 3100 E. 45th Street,
and for the acquisition of machinery
and equipment located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, LTV Corporation and/or
LTV
Steel
Company,
Inc.
(the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to LTV
Corporation and/or LTV Steel Company, Inc.; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and for
the further reason that its enactment
is a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate assistance to create and preserve job opportunities
and advance and promote commercial and economic development in the
City of Cleveland, such assistance
being immediately necessary or such
jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for abatement of certain
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes for a ten year period
beginning in the year such taxes
first become due as an incentive to
LTV Corporation and/or LTV Steel
Company, Inc; said abatement shall
be subject to annual review of the
Tax Incentive Review Council.

The City Record
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the schedule of investments set forth in File No. 1543-01A. The terms of said file notwithstanding, the terms of the tax abatement shall not be amended, nor
shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable to any entity,
without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1544-01.
By Councilmen Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
LTV Corporation and/or LTV Steel
Company, Inc. to provide financial
assistance for the purpose of retaining LTV Steel and its employees in
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with LTV Corporation and/or LTV
Steel Company, Inc to provide financial assistance for the purpose of
retaining LTV Steel and its employees in Cleveland.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 1544-01-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Four Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($4,500,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request No.
22706, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral as
set forth in the Executive Summary
contained in the file referenced
above in order to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared and approved
by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is hereby authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit said
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.

2096

August 22, 2001
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of Law
is hereby authorized to prepare said
contract and such other documents
as may be appropriate to complete
the transaction. Said contract shall
provide that LTV Corporation and/or
LTV Steel Company, Inc. shall adopt
and use good faith efforts to hire
City residents on contracts for capital improvement projects.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1545-01.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 1. (Carl C. Williams)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 1; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 1: Carl C.
Williams.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1546-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Ministerial Day Care to stretch
a banner at East 82nd Street and
Hough Avenue (northwest corner of
East 82nd Street and Hough Avenue
and southwest corner of East 82nd
Street and Hough Avenue), for the
period from August 15, 2001 to September 15, 2001, inclusive, publicizing the Community Health Fair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a
permit to the Ministerial Day Care to
install, maintain and remove banners
at East 82nd Street and Hough
Avenue (northwest corner of East
82nd Street and Hough Avenue and
southwest corner of East 82nd Street
and Hough Avenue), for the period
from August 15, 2001 to September 15,
2001, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1547-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on scattered sites to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-034 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
56 in Luther and Arvilla Moses Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 40 feet front on the Northerly side of Lexington Avenue and
extending back of equal width 150
feet deep, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-035 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
54 in the Luther Moses “et. al.” Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue,
and
extending
back
between parallel lines 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-036 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
52 in Luther Moses Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
48 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Lexington Avenue, and
extending back of equal width 150
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-089 as
more fully described, to Famicos
Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 8. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:

2097

161
P. P. No. 104-20-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Lot No. 340 and being a
tract of land 40 feet front on Utica
Avenue and 10 feet deep, the shape
of a rectangle said property being
the East part of a tract of land 600
feet East of East 55th Street, joined
on the North by Lot No. 17 and is
the same tract of land described in
Tax Sale Certificate No. 817 in Cuyahoga County Tax Sales for 1903, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-100 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 in Luther and Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga Records,
and being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Lexington Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width, 150 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-101 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 15 in Luther and Arvilla
Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line
of Lexington Avenue, N.E., (formerly Moses Avenue) at the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
15; thence Easterly along
said
Northerly
line
of
Lexington
Avenue, N.E., 40 feet to the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
15; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 15,
100 feet; thence Westerly 40 feet to
a point in the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 15, 100 feet Southerly
from the place of beginning; thence
Northerly along said Westerly line
100 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-102 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.

162
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-102
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 105 feet of Sublot No. 13 in
Luther and Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 340, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
48
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Lexington
Avenue, N.E., (formerly Moses Avenue) and extending back of equal
width 105 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976 the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-103 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-103
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 100 feet, from front to
rear, of Sublot No. 11 in Luther and
Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 48 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Lexington Avenue, N.E., and
extending back of equal width 100
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 133.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-046 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N,E., at a point distant 400 feet Easterly, measured
along said Northerly line from the
Easterly line of East 55th Street,
(formerly Wilson Avenue); thence
Easterly, along the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 40 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the Easterly
line of East 55th Street, 140 feet;
thence Westerly parallel with the
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly parallel with the Easterly line of East
55th Street, 140 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Subject to easement recorded in
Volume 1717, Page 110 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordi-

The City Record
nances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-047 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 60 feet wide
at a point 440 feet Easterly measured along said Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E. from its point
of intersection with the Easterly
line of East 55th Street, 100 feet
wide; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 33 feet; thence Northerly on a
line parallel to the Easterly line of
said Easterly 55th Street, 140 feet;
thence Westerly on a line parallel
to said Northerly line of Quimby
Avenue,
N.E.,
33
feet;
thence
Southerly 140 feet to the place of
beginning, and being further known
as the Westerly 33 feet from front
to rear of Sublot No. 11 in L.M.
Southern’s Proposed Allotment.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-085 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., distant 800 feet Easterly (measured along said Northerly line),
from the Easterly line of East 55th
Street; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Northerly parallel with said Easterly line of East
55th Street, 140 feet; thence Westerly parallel with said Northerly line
of Quimby Avenue, N.E., 40 feet;
thence Southerly parallel with said
Easterly line of East 55th Street, 140
feet to the place of beginning.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-088 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 930 feet Easterly measured along said Northerly

2098

August 22, 2001
line, from its point of intersection
with the Easterly line of East 55th
Street; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E.; 40 feet; thence Northerly on a
line parallel to said Easterly line of
East 55th Street, 140 feet; thence
Westerly on a line parallel to said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly 140
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-069 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
3 in Zoeter and Decker’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
30
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 66th Street
(formerly Duhham Avenue) and
extends back between parallel lines
172 feet to an alley in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any,
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-078 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in the Holden and Halle’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 7 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E. (formerly Astor Avenue) and extending back of equal
width 128 feet, 1 inch as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-079 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the

August 22, 2001
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Items
shown
on
plat
recorded in Volume 7, Page 14 and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Lawnview Avenue, 128 feet
deep, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-080 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-08-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
66 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 128 feet deep be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-09-049 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-09-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
76 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E. (formerly Astor Avenue), and extending back between
parallel lines about 128 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 106-12-037
as more fully described below, to
Famicos
Foundation
Inc.,
or
designee.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 41 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 7 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40 feet front
on the Southerly side of Lawnview
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Aster
Avenue), and extending back of
equal width 128 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.

The City Record
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-002 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known and described as
follows: And known as being Sublot
No. 45 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 7 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Lawnview
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 128 feet deep, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-024 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
30 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Linwood
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 128 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-026 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 28 and 29 in Holden and
Halle’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., distant West 51.57 feet from
the Southeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 29; thence West along the
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., 28.43 feet to the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 28; thence
North 0° 04' 00" East along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 28,
128 feet to the Northwesterly corner
thereof; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said Sublot Nos. 28
and 29, 41.69 feet to a point distant

2099

163
South 0° 04' 00" West, parallel with
the Easterly line of said Sublot No.
29, 42.73 feet, thence South 61° 17'
00" West 15.13 feet; thence South 0°
04' 00" West parallel with the Easterly line of said Sublot No. 29, 78
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
7210, Page 66 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-027 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 35 feet of Sublot No. 27 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 341 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 35 feet front on the Northerly
side of Linwood Avenue, N.E., and
extending back of equal width 128
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-028 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Southerly
85 feet of Sublot No. 26 and the
Southerly 85 feet of the Westerly 5
feet of Sublot No. 27 in Holden and
Halles Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records, together forming a
parcel of land 45 feet front on the
Northerly side of Linwood Avenue,
N.E. and extending back of equal
width 85 feet along the Easterly line
of East 70th Street, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-049 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
144 in Streator and Adams Re-Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341,

164
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Re-Subdivision in Volume 13 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records, being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., (formerly Beecher Street) and
extending back between parallel
lines, 151.19, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-13-051 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-13-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
146 in Streator and Adams Re-Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 13 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Linwood Avenue, N.E., and extending back between parallel lines
151.19 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 51. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-090 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 201 and 202 in Streator
and Adams Re-Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 338 and 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Pages 6 and 7 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 70th Street, at a point distant 65
feet 6 inches Southerly, measured
along said Westerly line, from its
intersection with the Southerly line
of Quimby Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly; parallel with the Southerly line
of Quimby Avenue, N.E., 111 feet 2
inches to a point; thence Southerly on
a line parallel with the Westerly line
of East 70th Street, about 34.41 feet
to a point on said parallel line, distant 8.72 feet Southerly from the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 202;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 202,
111 feet 2 inches to the Westerly line
of East 70th Street; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of East 70th
Street, 35 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 53. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-091 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.

The City Record
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-091
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 202 in Streator and Adams
Re-Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 338 and
341 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 13 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 70th Street (formerly Russell
Avenue) at the Southeasterly corner
of
said Sublot No. 202; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East 70th Street, about 36.28 feet to
the Southeasterly corner of land
conveyed to Nellie F. O’Neil by deed
dated May 22, 1906 and recorded in
Volume 1035, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along the southerly line of land so
conveyed to Nellie F. O’Neil, about
111 feet 2 inches to the Easterly
line of land conveyed to Julius
Ewanofsky by deed dated March 15,
1932 and recorded in Volume 4226,
Page
108
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of land conveyed to
Julius Ewanofsky about 36.28 feet
to the Southerly line of Sublot No.
202;
thence
Easterly along the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 202,
about 111 feet 2 inches to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 55. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-111 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-111
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 184 in Streator and Adams
Re-Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 338 and
341 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 13 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 70th Street (formerly Russell
Avenue) at a point 34 feet Southerly
measured along said Easterly line
from the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 184; thence Northerly along
said Easterly line of East 70th Street,
34 feet to the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 184; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of said Sublot
No. 184, 90 feet; thence Southerly on a
line parallel to the Easterly line of
East 70th Street, 34 feet; thence Westerly 90 feet to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 57. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-15-112 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 58. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-15-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

2100

August 22, 2001
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 183 in the Re-Subdivision
made by Streator and Adams of part
of Streator and Adams Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341 the plat
of which is recorded in Volume 13
of Maps, Pages 6 and 7 of Cuyahoga
County
Records
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly side of
Russell Avenue (now known as
East 70th Street) at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 183;
thence Easterly along the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 183, 101 feet;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Russell Avenue 33 feet; thence Westerly parallel with the Southerly line
of said Sublot No. 183, 101 feet to the
Easterly line of Russell Avenue;
thence Southerly along the Easterly
line of Russell Avenue, 33 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 59. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-017 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 60. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 11 in W.J. Kinnard’s ReSubdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Hough
Avenue,
N.E.
(formerly
Hough Avenue) at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 11; thence
Easterly along said Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., 45 feet; thence
Northerly on a line parallel to said
Westerly line of Sublot No. 11, 118
feet; thence Westerly on a line parallel to said Northerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E., 45 feet to said Westerly line of Sublot No. 11; thence
Southerly along said Westerly line of
Sublot No. 11, 118 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 61. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-018 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 62. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-018
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 36 feet of the Southerly 125 feet
of Sublot No. 11 and the Westerly 7
feet of the Southerly 125 feet of Sublot
No. 12 in W.J. Kinnard’s Re-Allotment
of Sublot Nos. 23 to 27 inclusive, and
Nos. 32 to 36 inclusive, of Sapp’s Subdivision of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Re-Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 28
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
parts of said Sublot Nos. 11 and 12

August 22, 2001
together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 43 feet on the
Northerly side of Hough Avenue, N.E.,
and extending back between parallel
lines 125 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 63. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-021 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 64. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 38 in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
38;
thence
Easterly
along
the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., 50 feet to the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 38; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 38, 125 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Anna C. Ogle by deed dated
January 12, 1900, and recorded in
Volume 745, Page 217 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of land so
conveyed, 50 feet to the Westerly
line of said Sublot No. 38; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
said Sublot, 125 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 65. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-022 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 66. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 39 in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 341 and 344, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
39; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 39, 109
feet; thence Easterly along a line
parallel with said Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., 25 feet; thence
Southerly along a line parallel with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
39, 109 feet to said Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E., 25 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 67. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordi-

The City Record
nances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies; is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-024 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 68. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 124 feet of Sublot No. 40
in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 341 and 344, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Northerly side of Hough Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 124.00 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 69. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-14-028 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation Inc., or designee.
Section 70. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-14-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 39 in L.W. Sapp’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 341 and 344, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 43 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Belvidere
Avenue, N.E., as shown by the plat
of dedication of fair court widening
(now known as Belvidere Avenue,
N.E.) in Volume 33 of Maps, Page 5
of Cuyahoga County Records, with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
39; thence Southerly along said
Westerly line of Sublot No. 39, 83.97
feet; thence Easterly along a line
parallel with the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 39, 25.00 feet to the
Southwesterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Arnold H. Forbes
and Margaret Forbes by deed dated
July 13, 1939 and recorded in Volume 4972, Page 284 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Arnold H. Forbes and
Margaret Forbes and parallel with
said Westerly line of Sublot No. 39,
84.185 feet to said Southerly line of
Belvidere Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly along said Southerly line of
Belvidere Avenue, N.E., 25.00 feet to
the place of beginning as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 71. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Develop-

2101

165
ment,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 72. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 73. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 74. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1548-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1417 East 82nd Street
to Roosevelt Pendleton and Elizabeth Pendleton.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-07-089,
as more fully described below, to
Roosevelt Pendleton and Elizabeth
Pendleton.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-07-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
383 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the Easterly line of East 82nd Street (for-

166
merly Genesee Avenue) 66 feet wide
at a point 240 feet Southerly (measured along said Easterly line) from
it point of intersection with the
Southerly line of Decker Avenue,
N.E., (formerly Gale Avenue) 44 feet
wide thence Southerly along said
Easterly line of East 82nd Street, 40
feet; thence Easterly parallel with
the Northerly line of Wade Park
Avenue, N.E., about 140.28 feet to a
point 102 feet Westerly from the
Westerly line of East 84th Street (44
feet wide); thence Northerly parallel
with said Westerly line of East 84th
Street, 40 feet, thence Westerly
about 140.27 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1549-01.
By Councilmen Lewis and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Recovery Resources to
provide services relating to the
Employee Assistance Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to enter into a
contract with Recovery Resources
for the professional services necessary to administer assistance to City
employees and their families in dealing with personal difficulties, including but not limited to family difficulties, marriage problems, financial

The City Record
concerns, legal issues, alcohol and
drug problems, workplace problems,
emotional and stress-related difficulties,
in
the
estimated
sum
of
$150,000.00, payable from Fund No.
01-999800-638000, Request No. 11621,
for the Department of Personnel and
Human Resources.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1550-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on Pleasant Valley Road to
the Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to execute
a temporary construction easement
granting certain temporary easement
rights to the Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County in property
located on Pleasant Valley Road for
a roadway improvement project.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities has requested the sale of
City-owned property no longer needed
for public use and located on Pleasant Valley Road to the Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County; and
Whereas, the Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County has
requested the Director of Public
Utilities to convey certain rights
regarding a temporary construction
easement in property located at
Pleasant Valley Road; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
entered into an Indenture of Mortgage agreement with National City
Bank, known as the Trustee, for the
issuance of Waterworks Improvement First Mortgage Revenue Bonds
on November 1, 1977, as amended and
supplemented from time to time; and
Whereas, there has been no default
under the Indenture of Mortgage
which has not been remedied; and
Whereas, Article VII of the Indenture of Mortgage provides the method
of requesting from the Trustee a
release of real property from the
operation and lien of the Indenture
of the Indenture of Mortgage; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
PLEASANT VALLEY ROAD (CR 39)
Widening and Improvement
Auditor’s Parcel No. 454-18-004
Right-of-Way Map No. M-4923
PID No. 10901
PARCEL NO. 193WD
Situated in the City of Parma,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

2102

August 22, 2001
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Parma Township Lot No. 33
and also being part of land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by
deed recorded in Volume 8432, Page
290 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at an iron monument
at the intersection of the Easterly
line of Original Lot No. 33 with the
centerline of Pleasant Valley Road
at Sta. 121+92.52 of said road;
Thence South 89° 11' 00" West for
629.00 feet along the centerline of
Pleasant Valley Road to the principal place of beginning, said point is
at Station 115+63.51;
Thence South 00° 21' 15" East for
40.00 feet along the Grantor’s Easterly line to a point on the proposed
right of way line of said Pleasant
Valley Road;
Thence South 89° 11' 00" West for
80.00 feet along said proposed right
of way line to a point on the
Grantor’s Westerly line;
Thence North 00° 21' 15" West for
40.00 feet along the Grantor’s Westerly line to the centerline of said
Pleasant Valley Road;
Thence North 89° 11' 00" East for
80.00 feet along the centerline of
said Pleasant Valley Road to the
Principal Place of Beginning;
Containing with said bounds 3,200
square feet (0.073 acres) inclusive of
the present road which occupies
2,400 square feet (0.055 acres).
Description of the above parcel is
based on a survey made by Terin J.
Kaminski, Registered Surveyor No.
7207.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Board of Commissioners of Cuyahoga County at a price no less than
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the City of Cleveland hereby requests pursuant to
Article VII of the Indenture of Mortgage
that
National
City
Bank,
Trustee, release from the operation
and lien of that Mortgage the abovedescribed property.
Section 4. That the Directors of
Public Utilities and Finance are
authorized to execute documents
and sign such instruments and take
such actions as may be requested by
the Trustee to secure the release of
the above-described property.
Section 5. That the conveyance
shall be made by warranty deed to
be prepared by the Director of Law
and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain provisions including such restrictive covenants and
reversionary interests as may be
specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and reserving to the City the
following described easement rights
and any other provisions protecting
the parties as their respective interests require and shall specifically
contain a provision against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 6. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
below-described, non-exclusive, temporary construction easement interest to the Board of County Commissioners at a price not less than fair
market value as determined by the
Board of Control:

August 22, 2001
PLEASANT VALLEY ROAD (CR 39)
Widening and Improvement
Auditor’s Parcel No. 454-18-004
Right-of-Way Map No. M-4923
PID No. 10901
Parcel No. 193T
Situated in the City of Parma,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Parma Township Lot No. 33
and also being part of land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by
deed recorded in Volume 8432, Page
290 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at an iron monument
at the intersection of the Easterly
line of Original Lot No. 33 with the
centerline of Pleasant Valley Road
at Sta. 121+92.52 of said road;
Thence South 89° 11' 00" West for
709.00 feet along the centerline of
Pleasant Valley Road to a point;
Thence South 00° 21' 15" East for
40.00 feet to a point, said point being
40.00 feet right of Sta. 114 + 83.20
of Pleasant Valley Road centerline
and the principal place of beginning;
Thence North 89° 11' 00" East for
80.00 feet along the proposed right
of way line to a point on the
Grantor’s Easterly line;
Thence South 00° 21' 15" East for
10.44 feet along the Grantor’s Easterly line to a point;
Thence North 88° 36' 41" West for
20.47 feet to a point;
Thence South 59° 36' 29" West for
50.11 feet to a point;
Thence North 73° 50' 44" West for
16.86 feet to a point on the Grantor’s
Westerly line;
Thence North 00° 21' 15" West for
29.46 feet along the Grantor’s Westerly line to the Point of Beginning.
Description of the above parcel is
based on a survey made by Terin J.
Kaminski, Registered Surveyor No.
7207.
It is understood that the strip of
land above described contains 1,676
square feet (0.038 acres), more or less.
Section 7. That the temporary construction easement shall be nonexclusive and the purpose of the
easement shall be for a roadway
improvement project that includes
pavement widening.
Section 8. That the duration of the
temporary
construction
easement
shall be as long as necessary to
complete the easement may include
reasonable access rights; that the
temporary
construction
easement
shall be assignable; that the temporary construction easement shall
require the grantee to indemnify the
City, provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any grantee improvements
located within the temporary construction easement, and pay any
applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 9. That the temporary construction easement referred to above
shall be made by a temporary rightof-way agreement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Utilities on behalf
of the City of Cleveland. The temporary right-of-way agreement shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the parties. The
Directors of Public Utilities and Law
are authorized to execute such other
documents, including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as
may be necessary to effect the construction of the road improvements
within the property described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

The City Record
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1551-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1743-99, passed June
15, 2000, direct service water rates
within Cleveland, regular and special homestead, direct service water
rates in Cuyahoga County except
Cleveland, regular and special homestead and direct service water rates
in Summit and Medina Counties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules,
and regulations of the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for water service, fixed by the
Board of Control, be and the same
are hereby approved.
Section 2. That Sections 535.04,
535.05 and 535.06 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 174399, passed June 15, 2000, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Section
535.04
Direct
Service
Water Rates within Cleveland; Regular and Special Homestead
(a)
Regular
beginning
1/1/01
through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Seven Dollars
and Fifty-Nine Cents ($7.59).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Sixteen
Dollars
and
Twenty-Three
Cents ($16.23) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(b)
Regular
beginning
1/1/02
through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Seven Dollars
and Eight-Five Cents ($7.85).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Sixteen
Dollars
and
Eighty
Cents
($16.80) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(c)
Regular
beginning
1/1/03
through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service, and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Eight Dollars
and Thirteen Cents ($8.13).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three

2103

167
month billing period shall cost Seventeen Dollars and Thirty-Eight
Cents ($17.38) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(d)
Regular
beginning
1/1/04
through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Eight Dollars
and Forty-One Cents ($8.41).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Seventeen
Dollars
and
Ninety-Nine
Cents ($17.99) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(e) Regular beginning 1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer within the
territorial limits of the City of
Cleveland. The minimum charge for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less of
water used during each three month
billing period shall be Eight Dollars
and Seventy-One Cents ($8.71).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Eighteen Dollars and Sixty-Two Cents
($18.62) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(f) Large Industrial Customers.
All
water
used
in
excess
of
62,500,000 cubic feet during a three
month
billing
period
shall
be
charged at a rate of seventy-five
percent (75%) of the rate prescribed
in this section for water used in
excess of one thousand (1,000) cubic
feet.
(g) Customers supplied from more
than one service district. Customers
with premises supplied with water
from more than one service district
shall be billed at the rate for the
service district from which the predominant quantity of water is supplied.
(h) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/01 through 12/31/01
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally
disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Sixty-One Cents ($3.61).
There shall be a minimum charge
of Three Dollars and Sixty-One
Cents ($3.61) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(i) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/02 through 12/31/02
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Sixty-Eight Cents ($3.68).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three Dollars and Sixty-Eight Cents
($3.68) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.

168
(j) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/03 through 12/31/03
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits of
the City of Cleveland owned by a person sixty-five years of age or older
or permanently and totally disabled;
provided that such person obtains a
certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant to the Homestead Exemption
provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Three Dollars and Seventy-Four
Cents ($3.74). There shall be a minimum charge of Three Dollars and
Seventy-Four Cents ($3.74) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(k) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/04 through 12/31/04
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits
of the City of Cleveland owned by
a person sixty-five years of age or
older or permanently and totally disabled; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Three Dollars and Eighty-One Cents ($3.81).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Three Dollars and Eighty-One Cents
($3.81) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(l) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/05
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads within the territorial limits of
the City of Cleveland owned by a person sixty-five years of age or older
or permanently and totally disabled;
provided that such person obtains a
certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant to the Homestead Exemption
provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Three Dollars and Eighty-Seven
Cents ($3.87). There shall be a minimum charge of Three Dollars and
Eighty-Seven Cents ($3.87) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(m) The Director of Public Utilities
shall prescribe the application form
for the homestead rate and have final
approval on all applications.
Section
535.05
Direct
Service
Water Rates in Cuyahoga County
Except Cleveland; Regular and Special Homestead
(a)
Regular
beginning
1/1/01
through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Thirteen Dollars and FiftyFour Cents ($13.54). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Twenty-Eight Dollars and
Eighty-Nine Cents ($28.89) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet

The City Record
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Fifteen
Dollars
and
Sixty-Four
Cents ($15.64). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Four Dollars and
Seventeen Cents ($34.17) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the
third high service district. The minimum charge for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less of water used during
each three month billing period
shall be Eighteen Dollars and Thirty-Six Cents ($18.36). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Nine Dollars and
Twenty-Two Cents ($39.22) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(b)
Regular
Beginning
1/1/02
through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fourteen Dollars ($14.00).
All water used in excess of 1,000
cubic feet during each three month
billing period shall cost TwentyNine Dollars and Eighty-Eight Cents
($29.88) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Sixteen Dollars and Seventeen Cents
($16.17). All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Thirty-Five Dollars and Thirty Cents
($35.30) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the third
high service district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Eighteen Dollars and Ninety-Seven
Cents ($18.97). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period shall
cost Forty Dollars and Fifty-Three
Cents ($40.53) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(c)
Regular
beginning
1/1/03
through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fourteen Dollars and FortyEight Cents ($14.48). All water used
in excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period shall
cost Thirty Dollars and Ninety-One
Cents ($30.91) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Sixteen Dollars and Seventy-Two
Cents ($16.72). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during each
three month billing period shall cost
Thirty Six Dollars and Forty-Eight
Cents ($36.48) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the
third high service district. The min-

2104

August 22, 2001
imum charge for the first 1,000 cubic
feet or less of water used during
each three month billing period
shall be Nineteen Dollars and Sixty
Cents ($19.60). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Forty-One Dollars and
Eighty-Eight
Cents
($41.88)
per
1,000 cubic feet.
(d)
Regular
beginning
1/1/04
through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fourteen Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($14.98). All water
used in excess of 1,000 cubic feet
during each three month billing
period shall cost Thirty-One Dollars
and Ninety-Eight Cents ($31.98) per
1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Seventeen Dollars and Twenty-Nine
Cents ($17.29). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period
shall cost Thirty-Seven Dollars and
Seventy Cents ($37.70) per 1,000
cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the third
high service district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Twenty
Dollars
and
Twenty-Six
Cents ($20.26). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period shall
cost Forty-Seven Dollars and FortyThree Dollars and Twenty-Eight
Cents (43.28) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(e) Regular beginning 1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the low
and first high service districts. The
minimum charge for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less of water used during each three month billing period
shall be Fifteen Dollars and Fifty
Cents ($15.50). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during
each three month billing period shall
cost Thirty-Three Dollars and Eight
Cents ($33.08) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the second high district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Seventeen Dollars and Eighty-Eight
Cents ($17.88). All water used in
excess of 1,000 cubic feet during each
three month billing period shall cost
Thirty-Eight Dollars and Ninety-Six
Cents ($38.96) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in the third
high service district. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet or
less of water used during each three
month billing period shall be Twenty
Dollars
and
Ninety-Three
Cents
($20.93). All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall be FortyFour Dollars and Seventy-Three Cents
($44.73) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(f) Large Industrial Customers.
All water used in excess of 62,500,000

August 22, 2001
cubic feet during a three month
billing period shall be charged at a
rate of seventy-five percent (75%) of
the rate prescribed in this section
for water used in excess of one thousand (1,000) cubic feet.
(g) Customers supplied from more
than one service district. Customers
with premises supplied with water
from more than one service district
shall be billed at the rate for the service district from which the predominant quantity of water is supplied.
(h) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/01 through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Thirty-Two Cents ($6.32).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Thirty-Two Cents
($6.32) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person sixtyfive years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided that such person obtains a
certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant to the Homestead Exemption
provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Eight Dollars and Twenty-Four
Cents ($8.24). There shall be a minimum charge of Eight Dollars and
Twenty-Four Cents ($8.24) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and Forty-Nine Cents ($10.49). There
shall be a minimum charge of Ten
Dollars
and
Forty-Nine
Cents
($10.49) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(i) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/02 through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Forty-Three Cents ($6.43).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Forty-Three Cents
($6.43) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.

The City Record
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person sixtyfive years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided that such person obtains a
certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant to the Homestead Exemption
provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Eight Dollars and Thirty-Seven
Cents ($8.37). There shall be a minimum charge of Eight Dollars and
Thirty-Seven Cents ($8.37) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and Sixty-Four Cents ($10.64). There
shall be a minimum charge of Ten
Dollars
and
Sixty-Four
Cents
($10.64) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(j) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/03 through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Fifty-Four Cents ($6.54).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Fifty-Four Cents
($6.54) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Fifty Cents ($8.50). There
shall be a minimum charge of Eight
Dollars and Fifty Cents ($8.50) for
the first 1,000 cubic feet or less used
by each homestead during each
three month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars

2105

169
and Seventy-Nine Cents ($10.79).
There shall be a minimum charge of
be Ten Dollars and Seventy-Nine
Cents ($10.79) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(k) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/04 through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first
high service districts owned by a
person sixty-five years of age or
older or by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that
such person obtains a certificate of
reduction in taxes pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code. The charge for
each 1,000 cubic feet of water used
by each homestead shall be Six Dollars and Sixty-Six Cents ($6.66).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Sixty-Six Cents
($6.66) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Sixty-Three Cents ($8.63).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Eight Dollars and Sixty-Three Cents
($8.63) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Ten Dollars
and
Ninety-Four
Cents
($10.94).
There shall be a minimum charge of
be Ten Dollars and Ninety-Four
Cents ($10.94) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(l) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the low and first high
service districts owned by a person
sixty-five years of age or older or by
a permanently and totally disabled
person; provided that such person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Six Dollars
and Seventy-Seven Cents ($6.77).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Six Dollars and Seventy-Seven Cents
($6.77) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(2) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the second high service district owned by a person

170
sixty-five years of age or older or
by a permanently and totally disabled person; provided that such person obtains a certificate of reduction
in taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eight Dollars and Seventy-Six Cents ($8.76).
There shall be a minimum charge of
Eight Dollars and Seventy-Six Cents
($8.76) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(3) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
homesteads in the third high service
district owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or by a permanently and totally disabled person;
provided
that
such
person
obtains a certificate of reduction in
taxes pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Section
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code. The charge for each
1,000 cubic feet of water used by
each homestead shall be Eleven Dollars and Nine Cents ($11.09). There
shall be a minimum charge of
Eleven Dollars and Nine Cents
($11.09) for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less used by each homestead during each three month billing period.
(m) The Director of Public Utilities
shall prescribe the application form
for the homestead rate and have final
approval on all applications.
Section
535.06
Direct
Service
Water Rates in Summit and Medina
Counties;
Regular
and
Special
Homestead
(a)
Regular
beginning
1/1/01
through 12/31/01
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Eighteen Dollars and Thirty-Six
Cents ($18.36).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost Thirty-Nine Dollars and Twenty-Two
Cents ($39.22) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(b)
Regular
beginning
1/1/02
through 12/31/02
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
shall be Eighteen Dollars and Ninety-Seven Cents ($18.97).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost
Forty Dollars and Fifty-Three Cents
($40.53) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(c)
Regular
beginning
1/1/03
through 12/31/03
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet or
less of water used during each three
month billing period shall be Nineteen Dollars and Sixty Cents ($19.60).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost
Forty-One Dollars and Eighty-Eight
Cents ($41.88) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(d)
Regular
beginning
1/1/04
through 12/31/04
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to

The City Record
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet or
less of water used during each three
month billing period shall be Twenty
Dollars and Twenty-Six Cents ($20.26).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost FortyThree
Dollars
and
Twenty-Eight
Cents ($43.28) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(e) Regular beginning 1/1/05
(1) A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to
each and every customer in Summit
and Medina Counties. The minimum
charge for the first 1,000 cubic feet
or less of water used during each
three month billing period shall be
Twenty Dollars and Ninety-Three
Cents ($20.93).
(2) All water used in excess of
1,000 cubic feet during each three
month billing period shall cost FortyFour
Dollars
and
Seventy-Three
Cents ($44.73) per 1,000 cubic feet.
(f) Large Industrial Customers.
All water used in excess of 62,500,000
cubic feet during a three month
billing period shall be charged at a
rate of seventy-five percent (75%) of
the rate prescribed in this section
for water used in excess of one thousand (1,000) cubic feet.
(g) Customers supplied from more
than one service district. Customers
with premises supplied with water
from more than one service district
shall be billed at the rate for the service district from which the predominant quantity of water is supplied.
(h) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/01 through 12/31/01
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Forty-Nine Cents
($10.49). There shall be a minimum
charge of be Ten Dollars and FortyNine Cents ($10.49) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(i) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/02 through 12/31/02
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Sixty-Four Cents
($10.64). There shall be a minimum
charge of Ten Dollars and SixtyFour Cents ($10.64) for the first
1,000 cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(j) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/03 through 12/31/03
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provi-

2106

August 22, 2001
sions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Seventy-Nine
Cents ($10.79). There shall be a minimum charge of Ten Dollars and
Seventy-Nine Cents ($10.79) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(k) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/04 through 12/31/04
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Ten Dollars and Ninety-Four
Cents ($10.94). There shall be a minimum charge of be Ten Dollars and
Ninety-Four Cents ($10.94) for the
first 1,000 cubic feet or less used by
each homestead during each three
month billing period.
(l) Special Homestead beginning
1/1/05
A minimum service and consumption charge shall be made to homesteads in Summit and Medina Counties owned by a person sixty-five
years of age or older or a permanently disabled person; provided
that such person obtains a certificate of reduction in taxes pursuant
to the Homestead Exemption provisions of Sections 323.151 through
323.157 of the Revised Code. The
charge for each 1,000 cubic feet of
water used by each homestead shall
be Eleven Dollars and Nine Cents
($11.09). There shall be a minimum
charge of Eleven Dollars and Nine
Cents ($11.09) for the first 1,000
cubic feet or less used by each
homestead during each three month
billing period.
(m) The Director of Public Utilities
shall prescribe the application form
for the homestead rate and have
final approval on all applications.
Section 3. That existing Sections
535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1743-99, passed June 15, 2000, are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1552-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation to stretch one banner across
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive north
of Parkgate Ave. on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of August
30, 2001 to September 10, 2001, inclusive, to publicize their special annual event; “One World Day”.

August 22, 2001
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to the Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation, of
Cleveland, Ohio, to install, maintain
and remove one (1) banner to be
hung on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles, (by separate permission) publicizing their special annual event; “One World Day”, for the
period of August 30, 2001 to September 10, 2001, inclusive, and which
banners are to be hung at the following pole locations and on the following pole numbers: Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive - one (1) pole North
of Parkgate Avenue on the West
side of the street, No pole number
or tag; and one (1) pole North of
Parkgate Avenue on the East side
of the street, No pole number or tag;
and which poles location and banners shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which banners will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1553-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation for construction of the
Bradley
Construction
Company
Headquarters and Hardware store
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Glenville Development Corporation for construction of the Bradley
Construction Company Headquarters
and Hardware store, and for the purpose of creating jobs and employment opportunities in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $65,183 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

The City Record
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1554-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation for Reddlo Development
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Glenville Development Corporation for Reddlo Development for
the new construction of a professional building to be located at the
Intersection of East 105th Street and
Hathaway Avenue for the purpose
of creating jobs and employment
opportunities in the City of Cleveland, through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1555-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation for the Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame through the
use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2107

171
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Glenville Development Corporation for the construction of the
Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame
Monument recognizing the contributions of Glenville residents, and for
the purpose of creating jobs and
employment opportunities in the City
of Cleveland, through the use of
Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1556-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, Local 39.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, Local 39 which contains
the terms set forth in File No. 155601-A, for the period from April 1,
2001 through March 31, 2004, which
provides, among other things, for an
increase in the salaries and wages
for members of the bargaining unit
in accordance with the following
schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record

172
Ord. No. 1557-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with Service Hospital Nursing Home
&
Public
Employees
(Custodial
Workers & Bridge Oilers), Local 47.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Service
Hospital Nursing Home & Public
Employees (Custodial Workers &
Bridge Oilers), Local 47 which contains the terms set forth in File No.
1557-01-A, for the period from April
1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase
Three percent (3%)

Effective Date
of Increase
April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1558-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with AFSCME, Ohio Council 8,
Local 100.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining
agreement
with
the
AFSCME, Ohio Council 8, Local 100
which contains the terms set forth
in File No. 1558-01-A, for the period
from April 1, 2001 through March 31,
2004, which provides, among other
things, for an increase in the
salaries and wages for members of
the bargaining unit in accordance
with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

August 22, 2001

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union
(Supervisory), Local 1099 which contains the terms set forth in File No.
1560-01-A, for the period from April
1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase
Effective Date
of Increase
Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Ord. No. 1559-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association
of Machinists District Council 54,
Local 439.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists
District Council 54, Local 439 which
contains the terms set forth in File
No. 1559-01-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1560-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Municipal Foreman &
Laborers Union (Supervisory), Local
1099.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council

2108

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1561-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with Municipal Foreman & Laborers
Union (Non-Supervisory), Local 1099.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union
(Non-Supervisory), Local 1099 which
contains the terms set forth in File
No. 1561-01-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 22, 2001

The City Record

173

Ord. No. 1562-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, effective as of April
1, 2001, and repealing existing Ordinance No. 434-01, passed March 20, 2000, as amended.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this ordinance shall be known as the “General Salary Ordinance.” Further, that except as otherwise herein provided, the schedules of compensation set forth in Sections 2 to 50 inclusive, shall be effective as
of April 1, 2001.
Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor, Directors of Departments, Planning Director, Executive Director Community
Relations Board, four Executive Assistants to the Mayor
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $49,078.05 and
not more than $154,315.05 per annum.
(b) That the salary of the the Directors of Law, Finance, Public Utilities, Port Control, Economic Development,
Public Safety, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Service, Public Health, Personnel and Human Resources,
Community Development, Aging, the Planning Director, and the Executive Director of the Community Relations
Board and four (4) Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $49,078.05 and
not more than $148,750.72 per annum.
Section 3. Clerk of Council
That the salary of the Clerk of Council shall be fixed at not less than $41,416.04 and not more than $93,581.41
per annum.
Section 4. Employees of Council-Salary
That the Clerk of Council, with the approval of the President of Council, shall fix the salary of the employees
of Council within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

Administrative Assistant..........................................................
Archivist.........................................................................................
Chief of Consumer Affairs......................................................
Chief Deputy Clerk ..................................................................
Chief Legislative Secretary....................................................
Clerk’s Deputy Assistant.........................................................
Clerk’s Assistant.........................................................................
Councilmanic Assistants (Part-Time).................................
Council Receptionist..................................................................
Deputy Clerk................................................................................
Deputy Clerk – Finance...........................................................
Director of Communications...................................................
Executive Assistant – Administration................................
Executive Assistant – Finance..............................................
Executive Assistant to the Clerk of Council..................
Executive Transition Coordinator........................................
First Assistant Clerk.................................................................
Fiscal Officer................................................................................
Fiscal Secretary...........................................................................
Information Systems Coordinator.........................................
Information Systems Administrator.....................................
Legislative Assistants...............................................................
Legislative Assistant/Administrative Secretary.............
Legislative Secretary.................................................................
Research Assistant.....................................................................
Research Director.......................................................................
Sergeant-at-Arms..........................................................................

Minimum

Maximum

21,112.14
18,630.00
21,851.06
21,851.06
21,851.06
21,851.06
$18.72 per hour
$ 7.16 per hour
18,630.00
21,112.14
21,112.14
24,974.46
24,974.46
24,974.46
24,974.46
41,416.04
24,975.91
$25.85 per hour
24,975.91
21,851.06
21,851.06
18,630.00
18,630.00
18,630.00
21,851.06
21,851.06
13,304.30

67,858.34
67,858.34
74,644.18
67,858.34
67,858.34
67,858.34
$21.30 per hour
$14.02 per hour
40,715.00
67,858.34
67,858.34
76,644.18
81,430.02
81,430.02
81,430.02
86,430.02
67,858.34
$41.81 per hour
64,336.48
74,098.58
81,430.02
54,286.68
64,336.48
54,286.68
81,430.02
81,430.02
37,328.41

Section 5. Secretary of Civil Service Commission, Secretaries to Director, and Executive Assistants to the Mayor
That the salary of the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, the salary of the Secretary to each Director
of a Department, and the salaries of four Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor in
accordance with the following schedule:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Four Executive Assistants to the Mayor..........................
Special Assistant to the Mayor.............................................
Secretary to Directors of Departments..............................
Secretary of the Civil Service Commission......................

Minimum
$35,410.47
20,410.00
36,590.39
25,011.85

Maximum
$125,241.90
79,901.99
105,803.73
74,623.50

Section 6. Department of Law
That the Director of Law shall fix the salary of each member of his staff of lawyers in accordance with the
following schedule:

2109

174

The City Record

August 22, 2001

CIVIL BRANCH
1.
Chief Counsel...............................................................................
2.
Chief Assistant Director of Law..........................................
3.
Assistant Director of Law I...................................................
4.
Assistant Director of Law I(s).............................................
5.
Assistant Director of Law II.................................................
6.
Assistant Director of Law II(s)...........................................

Minimum
$36,750.00
31,500.00
26,250.00
26,250.00
31,500.00
31,500.00

Maximum
$116,992.77
90,878.58
65,671.03
71,224.40
74,126.31
80,831.61

CRIMINAL BRANCH
1.
Chief Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
2.
First Assistant Prosecutor......................................................
3.
Assistant Prosecutor..................................................................

36,750.00
31,500.00
23,100.00

104,435.53
82,232.88
65,274.98

Section 7. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Custodial Worker........................................................................
Window Washer..........................................................................
Bridge Oiler..................................................................................

Minimum
$ 8.34 per hour
$12.54 per hour
$ 8.96 per hour

Maximum
$12.58 per hour
$17.07 per hour
$15.18 per hour

Section 8. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

Accountant I.................................................................................
Accountant II...............................................................................
Accountant III..............................................................................
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
Activities Therapist...................................................................
AIDS Support Services Coordinator.....................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer I.........................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer II.......................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer III.....................................
Air Pollution Engineer.............................................................
Air Pollution Inspector I.........................................................
Air Pollution Inspector II.......................................................
Air Pollution Technician I......................................................
Air Pollution Technician II....................................................
Air Pollution Technician III..................................................
Airport Information Representative....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man....................................................................
Architect.........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Buyer...........................................................................
Assistant City Planner.............................................................
Assistant Civil Engineer..........................................................
Assistant Electrical Engineer................................................
Assistant Mechanical Engineer.............................................
Assistant Plan Examiner.........................................................
Associate Programmer..............................................................
Bacteriologist................................................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Building Inspector......................................................................
Camera Room Operator............................................................
Caseworker I................................................................................
Caseworker II..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter.............................................................................
Chemist...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Civil Engineer..............................................................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clerk Typist..................................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I.........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II.......................................
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I............................................
Cocaine Intake Specialist........................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector I......................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector II....................................................

2110

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$16.68 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$20.28 per hour
$13.51 per hour
$14.60 per hour
$12.84 per hour
$14.37 per hour
$21.44 per hour
$22.60 per hour
$23.81 per hour
$16.74 per hour
$17.25 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$21.44 per hour
$14.01 per hour
$17.32 per hour
$20.39 per hour
$17.72 per hour
$25.22 per hour
$23.58 per hour
$17.50 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$19.60 per hour
$20.28 per hour
$14.01 per hour
$18.60 per hour
$15.92 per hour
$15.21 per hour
$16.68 per hour
$16.68 per hour
$21.86 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$15.92 per hour
$25.22 per hour
$19.24 per hour
$10.44 per hour
$15.92 per hour
$18.29 per hour
$19.60 per hour
$15.14 per hour
$13.63 per hour

$14.08 per hour

$20.29 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$21.44 per hour

$ 6.55
$ 7.27
$ 8.20
$ 5.15
$ 5.46
$ 9.15
$10.49
$ 8.43
$ 8.96
$ 9.50
$12.04
$12.12
$ 7.76
$ 7.12
$ 7.53
$ 8.43
$10.02
$14.14
$17.77
$14.19
$ 9.73
$17.83
$ 6.71
$ 7.12
$ 7.12
$ 7.12
$ 7.12
$13.42
$ 7.55
$ 7.96
$10.02
$14.26
$ 6.04
$ 5.90
$ 6.55
$ 6.36
$ 8.90
$ 7.53
$ 6.04
$ 9.50
$ 7.53
$ 7.62
$ 6.36
$ 7.12
$ 7.37
$ 8.56
$ 9.95

August 22, 2001
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.

The City Record

Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector III...................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating I....................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating II...................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Heating III.................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration I..............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration II........................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Refrigeration III......................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Trainee.........................................
Community Development Planner........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I.............................
Community Relations Representative II...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Composing Equipment Operator............................................
Computer Monitor Assistant...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist.............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist.....................................
Cook.................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Cost Construction Estimator...................................................
Customer Service Representative.........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator.......................................................
Dental Assistant ........................................................................
Development Officer..................................................................
Dietician.........................................................................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor..................................................
Electrical Engineer....................................................................
Electronic Engineer...................................................................
Elevator Inspector......................................................................
Engineer.........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I.............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III.......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Environmental Technician......................................................
Family Planning Clerk.............................................................
Financial Analyst.......................................................................
Financial Counselor...................................................................
Fuel System Technician...........................................................
General Health Aide..................................................................
General Storekeeper...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker.....................................................
Head Cook.....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper........................................................................
Health Educator I......................................................................
Health Educator II....................................................................
Heating Inspector.......................................................................
HIV Educator...............................................................................
House Connection Inspector...................................................
Housing Inspector.......................................................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist................................
Human Resources On-the-Job
Training Specialist.................................................................
Human Resources Planner......................................................
Human Resources Special
Projects Coordinator..............................................................
Income Tax Tracer....................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer.................................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector................................................
Information Control Analyst..................................................

2111

175
$15.70 per hour

$22.60 per hour

$14.08 per hour

$20.29 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$21.44 per hour

$15.70 per hour

$22.60 per hour

$14.08 per hour

$20.29 per hour

$14.89 per hour

$21.44 per hour

$15.70 per hour

$22.60 per hour

$ 9.97
$ 9.87
$ 5.15
$ 6.04
$ 7.53
$ 9.51
$ 6.71
$ 8.43
$ 7.53
$12.02
$ 5.73
$ 9.12
$11.38
$ 5.67
$ 8.34
$10.03
$ 5.24
$ 9.92
$ 5.15
$ 8.96
$ 9.08
$ 9.05
$ 9.50
$ 9.54
$14.23
$22.78
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$13.33
$14.18
$15.74
$12.35
$ 7.22
$ 7.12
$ 7.94
$ 9.23
$ 5.15
$ 7.96
$ 7.12
$ 5.46
$ 7.11
$ 6.36
$ 7.12
$14.23
$ 8.17
$12.70
$14.60
$ 9.73

$16.37
$24.26
$13.51
$15.92
$19.24
$23.81
$17.50
$11.57
$19.24
$18.46
$15.21
$20.36
$13.17
$14.60
$18.72
$14.58
$14.02
$12.70
$13.24
$22.59
$16.67
$12.40
$25.22
$25.67
$18.60
$28.71
$18.20
$19.11
$24.87
$18.99
$19.94
$20.95
$18.81
$19.75
$20.73
$15.22
$11.68
$18.29
$19.24
$17.00
$13.51
$20.28
$18.29
$14.57
$18.30
$16.68
$18.29
$18.60
$10.64
$15.55
$16.55
$25.21

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$10.21 per hour
$10.74 per hour

$21.43 per hour
$26.63 per hour

$10.21
$10.04
$ 9.73
$ 6.36
$ 6.81

$21.43
$14.74
$25.21
$16.68
$17.46

per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

176
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.

The City Record
Inspector of Weight and Measures.....................................
Instrument Repairman..............................................................
Instrumentation Technician I................................................
Instrumentation Technician II..............................................
Intake Specialist.........................................................................
Job Retraining Assistant.........................................................
Junior Cashier ..........................................................................
Junior Chemist.............................................................................
Junior City Planner...................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer...............................................................
Junior Clerk..................................................................................
Junior Draftsman........................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide.........................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant.................................................................
Laboratory Helper......................................................................
Landscape Architect...................................................................
Lead Pressman.............................................................................
Life Guard.....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain....................................................................
Mechanical Engineer.................................................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader................................................................................
Minority Business Consultant................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and
Evaluation Coordinator.........................................................
Office Machine Operator..........................................................
Offset Duplicating Machine Operator.................................
On The Job Training Specialist...........................................
Park and Recreation Planner................................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist..................................................
Pharmacist.....................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor I................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor II..............................................................................
Photographer................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician ................................
Photo-Litho Operator..................................................................
Physical Director........................................................................
Plan Examiner.............................................................................
Play Director................................................................................
Police Radio Technician..........................................................
Pressman........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator...................................................
Principal Cashier........................................................................
Principal Clerk............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary........................................................................
Program Analyst.........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk.............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist I..............................................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I.....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV..................................................
Public Information Officer......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst.....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician........................................................................
Receptionist...................................................................................
Records Manager........................................................................
Recreation Aide...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor................................................................

2112

August 22, 2001
$ 5.73
$ 8.21
$16.87
$18.83
$ 5.15
$ 7.12
$ 5.40
$ 5.46
$ 6.36
$ 6.36
$ 9.89
$ 8.45
$ 5.46
$16.82
$ 6.04
$ 5.15
$ 9.50
$ 8.93
$ 8.50
$10.00
$ 9.50
$ 5.15
$12.82
$11.15
$ 5.46

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$15.21
$16.67
$17.91
$19.73
$13.51
$18.29
$14.01
$14.60
$16.68
$16.68
$11.68
$14.32
$14.60
$21.23
$15.92
$12.58
$23.81
$18.55
$13.33
$16.52
$25.21
$12.58
$15.36
$28.06
$15.36

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$13.65
$ 9.89
$ 5.46
$12.71
$ 9.51
$ 6.31
$ 6.32
$13.62
$ 7.00
$10.74

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$18.57
$12.24
$14.60
$17.94
$23.81
$13.51
$13.48
$14.18
$11.31
$26.62

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$ 6.49 per hour

$12.92 per hour

$ 7.57
$ 9.08
$ 6.80
$ 5.48
$ 8.33
$ 8.20
$ 5.68
$16.38
$ 7.89
$13.59
$ 8.89
$ 7.46
$11.93
$10.61
$ 6.71
$16.64
$ 8.96
$ 9.73
$11.37
$12.48
$10.74
$12.88
$10.63
$12.78
$14.35
$15.49
$ 8.78
$ 7.38
$ 8.96
$16.82
$17.33
$16.38
$ 6.06
$ 9.84
$ 5.68
$ 5.15

$15.26
$18.29
$15.92
$14.60
$16.45
$21.76
$11.53
$17.33
$17.95
$18.61
$12.50
$19.60
$16.58
$12.36
$17.50
$25.36
$22.60
$25.21
$28.08
$18.24
$24.27
$28.61
$11.66
$15.57
$17.44
$18.20
$22.59
$19.24
$22.59
$21.23
$17.33
$17.33
$12.88
$13.50
$9.00
$13.51

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

August 22, 2001
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.

The City Record

Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III.........................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor............................................
Redevelopment Advisor............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator....................................................
Refrigeration Inspector............................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker.......................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician...............................
Rehabilitation Advisor..............................................................
Rehabilitation Inspector...........................................................
Sanitarian Aide............................................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs......................
Senior Assistant Architect.......................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner...............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer...........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer..................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer.......................................
Senior Bacteriologist..................................................................
Senior Cashier..............................................................................
Senior Chemist.............................................................................
Senior Clerk..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator.......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist.......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator.........................................
Senior Development Officer....................................................
Senior Draftsman........................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman
and Photographer...................................................................
Senior Information Control Analyst....................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect....................................................
Senior Site Inspector – Demolition......................................
Sewer Service Man.....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless..................................................
Starter (Golf)...............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk...................................................................................
Stenographer I.............................................................................
Stenographer II............................................................................
Stenographer III..........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper....................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector...................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II.............................................................................
Technical Specialist...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer............................................
Telephone Operator....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor................................................................
Timekeeper....................................................................................
Traffic Engineer.........................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician...............................
Typist..............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development
Technician.................................................................................
Utility Adjuster............................................................................
Vector Control Assistant..........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor...................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman..................................................
Water Meter Repairman..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman.............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector................................

177
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 6.83
$ 6.83
$ 7.96
$ 8.38
$14.26
$ 8.40
$ 7.94
$ 6.71
$14.60
$11.62
$ 6.30
$ 9.51
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 7.96
$ 6.71
$ 6.55
$ 7.53
$10.29
$ 8.96
$11.34
$10.80
$12.63
$ 9.65

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$14.39
$14.95
$15.82
$14.70
$20.28
$22.60
$18.60
$12.57
$13.51
$17.50
$22.60
$13.11
$14.60
$23.81
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$20.28
$17.50
$16.68
$19.24
$13.69
$22.60
$23.96
$15.21
$29.64
$16.36

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$ 7.12
$ 7.38
$10.86
$ 9.73
$ 8.43
$14.99
$ 7.53
$13.82
$ 5.15
$ 7.88
$ 9.77
$10.77
$ 7.37
$ 5.46
$ 6.36
$ 6.04
$ 8.96
$10.60
$12.41
$ 7.53
$ 9.08
$ 5.24
$ 5.46
$ 5.46
$ 9.50
$13.68
$ 9.92

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$18.29 per
$19.24 per
$14.88 per
$25.21 per
$21.43 per
$15.90 per
$19.24 per
$18.93 per
$11.19 per
$10.80 per
$12.27 per
$13.69 per
$15.21 per
$15.04 per
$17.13 per
$15.92 per
$22.60 per
$15.48 per
$17.11per
$19.24 per
$20.29 per
$14.01 per
$14.60 per
$14.60 per
$23.81 per
$14.60 per
$12.70 per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$ 5.73
$10.64
$ 8.90
$ 7.38
$14.99
$14.99
$13.58
$ 9.05
$15.67

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$15.21
$13.69
$12.18
$16.56
$15.90
$15.90
$15.90
$13.58
$19.87

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 9. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Guard...............................................................................................
Correctional Officer....................................................................
Institutional Guard ...................................................................

2113

Minimum
$ 6.55 per hour
$12.18 per hour
$12.18 per hour

Maximum
$13.11 per hour
$13.94 per hour
$13.94 per hour

178

The City Record

August 22, 2001

Section 10. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Minimum
$22,882.82
22,885.90
19,409.04
21,266.04

Bilingual Communication Specialist....................................
Police Radio Dispatcher...........................................................
Police Safety Aide......................................................................
Safety Telephone Operator......................................................

Maximum
$31,128.76
34,083.34
24,265.18
26,354.27

Section 11. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Minimum
29,828.64
26,776.62
30,533.44
24,070.17
37,550.06
29,215.14
31,650.11
23,962.24
28,605.94
30,553.44
26,835.06
28,446.57
32,237.05
28,446.55
32,237.05
28,446.57
32,242.61

Assistant Superintendent of Distribution..........................
Chief Meter Reader....................................................................
Chief Radio Dispatcher – Water..........................................
Data Conversion Supervisor....................................................
Engineer of Hydraulic Surveys............................................
Meter Reader Supervisor..........................................................
Sewer Construction Unit Leader...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader Operator........................
Supervisor of Radio Service...................................................
Unit Supervisor............................................................................
Water Hydraulic Unit Leader................................................
Water Hydraulic Supervisor...................................................
Water Meter Department Unit Leader...............................
Water Meter Department Supervisor...................................
Water Pipe Repair Unit Leader...........................................
Water Pipe Repair Supervisor...............................................

Maximum
38,266.51
34,440.26
39,175.14
31,047.29
48,463.15
38,401.35
40,550.03
35,101.15
36,733.62
41,422.00
38,812.73
37,050.41
41,809.36
37,050.41
41,809.36
37,954.39
42,713.34

Section 12. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Building Stationary Engineer................................................
Chief Building Stationary Engineer....................................
Chief Stationary Engineer......................................................
First Assistant Stationary Engineer...................................
Purification Plant Operator I................................................
Purification Plant Operator II...............................................
Purification Plant Operator III ...........................................
Second Assistant Stationary Engineer...............................
Stationary Boiler Room Operator.........................................
Water Plant Operator I............................................................
Water Plant Operator II..........................................................

$10.14
$12.37
$ 9.18
$12.15
$ 9.43
$10.83
$11.36
$10.83
$12.29
$15.70
$17.73

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$16.22 per hour
$17.34 per hour
$18.95 per hour
$17.25 per hour
$13.21 per hour
$15.04 per hour
$15.71 per hour
$16.11 per hour
$16.82 per hour
$17.76 per hour
$19.02 per hour

Section 13. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor................................
Traffic Sign Process Operator...............................................

Minimum
$12.89 per hour
$12.89 per hour

Maximum
$21.10 per hour
$21.10 per hour

Section 14. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Security Officer............................................................................

Minimum
$10.80 per hour

Maximum
$16.74 per hour

Section 15. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Airport Maintenance Man........................................................
Concrete Mixer Driver..............................................................
Dog Warden..................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II................................
Hostler.............................................................................................
Parking Enforcement Officer.................................................
Street Carry-all Driver..............................................................
Street Maintenance Equipment Leader..............................
Street Equipment Maintenance Specialist.........................
Tanker Truck Driver................................................................
Tow Truck Operator ................................................................
Traffic Controller........................................................................
Truck Driver.................................................................................
Waste Collection Driver...........................................................
Waste Collection Roll-Off Driver..........................................

2114

$11.97
$14.82
$11.04
$12.34
$ 9.80
$ 9.74
$15.55
$16.15
$15.55
$15.55
$11.80
$ 9.73
$12.50
$12.33
$15.52

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$15.14 per hour
$18.79 per hour
$13.99 per hour
$15.65 per hour
$12.42 per hour
$12.34 per hour
$19.70 per hour
$20.47 per hour
$19.70 per hour
$19.70 per hour
$14.97 per hour
$12.34 per hour
$15.85 per hour
$15.63 per hour
$20.08 per hour

August 22, 2001

The City Record

179

Section 16. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Machinist........................................................................................
Machinist Unit Leader..............................................................
Machinist Helper.........................................................................

Minimum
$15.83 per hour
$14.28 per hour
$13.72 per hour

Maximum
$18.58 per hour
$21.04 per hour
$15.70 per hour

Section 17. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader.............................................
Auto Body Repair Worker......................................................
Automobile Repair Helper.......................................................
Automobile Repair Worker.....................................................
Automobile Repairman Unit Leader....................................
Blacksmith.....................................................................................
Garage Worker............................................................................
Heavy Duty Mechanic...............................................................
Small Equipment Repair Worker.........................................
Tire Repair Worker...................................................................
Welder.............................................................................................

$12.88
$15.73
$10.13
$12.60
$17.78
$15.79
$12.42
$15.75
$12.26
$14.08
$18.36

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$19.31 per hour
$17.12 per hour
$14.39 per hour
$16.97 per hour
$20.59 per hour
$20.06 per hour
$14.43 per hour
$20.33 per hour
$15.61 per hour
$15.47 per hour
$19.77 per hour

Section 18. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Bridge Attendant.........................................................................
Electric Bridge Operator..........................................................

Minimum
$ 7.82 per hour
$ 9.39 per hour

Maximum
$12.97 per hour
$15.66 per hour

Section 19. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Assistant Chief Electrical Inspector...................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical I.................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical II...............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Electrical III.............................
Electrical Inspector....................................................................

Minimum
$30,822.89

Maximum
$40,987.11

$14.40 per hour

$19.70 per hour

$15.20 per hour

$20.82 per hour

$16.01 per hour
$29,217.91

$21.93 per hour
$38,852.90

Section 20. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Assistant Chief Plumbing Inspector...................................
Assistant Plumbing Inspector................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing I.................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing II...............................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector/Plumbing III..............................
Plumbing Inspector....................................................................

Minimum
$30,822.89
$18,839.70

Maximum
$40,987.11
$33,644.18

$14.40 per hour

$19.70 per hour

$15.20 per hour

$20.82 per hour

$16.01 per hour
$29,217.91

$21.93 per hour
$38,852.90

Section 21. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Emergency Medical Dispatcher (Probationary).............
Emergency Medical Dispatcher.............................................
Emergency Medical Technician............................................

Minimum
$ 8.50 per hour
$24,765.24
$26,336.35

Maximum
$ 8.50 per hour
$34,091.62
$39,296.16

Section 22. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Nurse II..........................................................................................
Public Health Nurse..................................................................
Public Health Nurse I...............................................................
Public Health Nurse II.............................................................
Public Health Nurse III...........................................................
Public Health Nurse IV...........................................................
Public Health Nurse V.............................................................
Public Health Nurse VI...........................................................
Supervising Public Health Nurse .......................................

2115

Minimum
$19,049.10
19,049.10
23,146.64
35,887.06
39,098.75
28,151.33
30,653.67
35,658.35
23,647.11

Maximum
$40,499.69
40,499.69
39,432.63
38,083.56
42,031.15
45,869.06
50,426.68
58,284.78
44,203.41

180

The City Record

August 22, 2001

Section 23. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the
appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman...................................................................
Cable Foreman.............................................................................
Cable Splicer.................................................................................
Cable Splicer I.............................................................................
Cable Splicer II...........................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer......................................
Electric Meter Instrument
Specialist and General Tester...........................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice...............................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II......................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman...................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman...........................
Electric Transmission
and Distribution Inspector..................................................
Foreman Low Tension..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice.......................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension................................................
Line Foreman...............................................................................
Line Clearance Man...................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Lineman..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Line Switchman...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice.......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman.............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Electric Switchboard Operator...............................................
Senior Lineman............................................................................
Signal System Powerman........................................................
Telecommunications Technician...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician.......................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman.............................................

$14.78
$14.89
$20.92
$17.46
$18.72
$17.14
$12.62
$17.64
$18.64

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$21.15 per hour
$21.32 per hour
$27.81 per hour
$23.23 per hour
$24.90 per hour
$22.78 per hour
$19.56 per hour
$23.45 per hour
$24.80 per hour

$18.86
$14.55
$20.92
$17.38
$16.18
$17.38
$20.92

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$25.08
$20.85
$27.81
$23.09
$21.53
$23.09
$27.81

per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$18.72
$20.55
$17.38
$14.78
$14.86
$19.93
$20.92
$14.62
$12.44
$18.72
$20.06
$20.06
$17.46
$14.37
$18.30
$19.19
$19.19
$19.71
$16.39
$19.71
$19.54
$19.54
$20.69
$20.92
$19.71
$20.92

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$24.90
$27.33
$23.09
$21.15
$19.77
$26.51
$27.81
$20.57
$20.15
$24.90
$26.68
$26.68
$23.23
$20.57
$26.40
$25.52
$25.52
$26.21
$21.79
$26.21
$25.99
$25.99
$27.51
$27.81
$26.21
$27.81

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 24. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Accident and Safety Inspector...............................................
Airport Field Foreman.............................................................
Arborist I.......................................................................................
Arborist II.....................................................................................
Arborist III....................................................................................
Assistant Gardener.....................................................................
Assistant Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry ...........
Assistant Superintendent of Waste Collection...................
Cemetery Foreman.....................................................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man I.............................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man II...........................................
Cemetery Supervisor..................................................................
Chief Engineering and
Construction Inspector..........................................................
Chief Horticulturist....................................................................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Foreman .........................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Worker.............................
Crematory and Mausoleum Operator...................................
District Paving Repair Foreman..........................................
Engineering and Construction Inspector...........................
Gardener.........................................................................................

2116

$16.44
$16.31
$14.33
$16.60
$18.73
$11.24
$20.24
$20.74
$16.32
$12.81
$19.99
$18.74
$20.60
$24.59
$18.85
$14.08
$14.33
$25.58
$15.37
$12.30

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Maximum
$18.44 per hour
$18.31 per hour
$16.33 per hour
$18.60 per hour
$20.73 per hour
$13.24 per hour
$22.24 per hour
$22.74 per hour
$18.32 per hour
$14.81 per hour
$21.99 per hour
$20.74 per hour
$22.60
$26.59
$20.85
$16.08
$16.33
$27.58
$17.37
$14.30

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

August 22, 2001
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.

The City Record

General Construction Foreman..............................................
General Shop Foreman.............................................................
Greenskeeper................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Crew Foreman...................................
Ground Maintenance Foreman...............................................
Ground Maintenance Man........................................................
Horticulturist................................................................................
Horticulturist Maintenance Foreman..................................
Labor Foreman............................................................................
Lead Program Assistant..........................................................
Mechanical Handyman..............................................................
Maintenance Foreman...............................................................
Municipal Service Laborer.......................................................
Parking Coordinator..................................................................
Practical Nurse............................................................................
Radio Operator.............................................................................
Real Estate Maintenance Man..............................................
Set-Up Foreman............................................................................
Shop Foreman...............................................................................
Sidewalk Inspector.....................................................................
Street Cleaning District Foreman........................................
Street Maintenance Foreman..................................................
Street Maintenance General Foreman.................................
Street Permit Supervisor..........................................................
Street Sweeper – Waste Collection......................................
Tire Shredder................................................................................
Transfer Station Attendant.....................................................
Waste Collection Foreman......................................................
Waste Collection Foreman I..................................................
Waste Collection Transfer Foreman...................................
Waste Collector...........................................................................
Waste Collector – Cushman Operator.................................
Watchman......................................................................................
Watchman Supervisor................................................................

181
$25.81
$18.74
$16.96
$13.84
$16.32
$12.81
$23.55
$18.32
$16.31
$13.91
$13.36
$15.60
$12.81
$17.24
$12.75
$14.71
$13.57
$13.58
$16.31
$14.04
$16.31
$16.31
$20.75
$12.78
$12.45
$13.46
$17.24
$16.31
$17.92
$18.59
$12.81
$13.16
$10.76
$13.52

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

$27.81
$20.74
$18.96
$15.84
$18.32
$14.81
$25.55
$20.32
$18.31
$15.91
$15.36
$17.60
$14.81
$19.24
$14.75
$16.71
$15.57
$15.58
$18.31
$16.04
$18.31
$18.31
$22.75
$14.78
$14.45
$15.46
$19.24
$18.31
$19.92
$20.59
$14.81
$15.16
$12.76
$15.52

per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per
per

hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour
hour

Section 25. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Fingerprint Examiner...............................................................
Scientific Examiner....................................................................

Minimum
$22,000.00
$25,000.00

Maximum
$32,168.86
$48,080.85

Section 26. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Budget Analyst............................................................................
Buyer...............................................................................................
Civil Service Examiner I.........................................................
Civil Service Examiner II.......................................................
Civil Service Examiner III.....................................................
Civil Service Examiner IV......................................................
Court Stenographer....................................................................
Docket Clerk.................................................................................
Junior Personnel Assistant.....................................................
Law Librarian..............................................................................
Legal Secretary............................................................................
Office Manager............................................................................
Parking Enforcement Analyst...............................................
Paralegal........................................................................................
Personnel Assistant....................................................................
Private Secretary to Director.................................................
Senior Personnel Assistant.....................................................
Tape Librarian.............................................................................

Minimum
16,760.96
17,705.24
12,983.84
15,344.54
18,885.58
23,606.98
15,344.54
16,043.58
12,983.84
16,524.89
17,189.55
14,700.00
18,385.50
16,043.58
16,524.89
15,344.54
17,705.24
14,164.19

Maximum
44,618.98
40,792.97
34,200.84
36,782.26
42,220.73
52,398.08
34,270.24
30,573.46
33,134.82
33,038.97
34,656.78
32,780.81
37,509.08
36,782.38
38,069.77
40,022.05
42,220.73
35,103.80

Section 27. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Administrative Officer..............................................................
Cable Protection Specialist.....................................................
Case Worker Supervisor...........................................................
Chief Air Pollution Inspector................................................
Chief Caseworker Supervisor.................................................
Chief Clerk....................................................................................
Chief Photographer....................................................................

2117

Minimum
17,705.24
18,529.41
20,065.93
20,065.93
22,426.64
22,050.00
20,065.93

Maximum
44,593.41
32,437.84
38,069.77
43,085.42
38,668.86
40,022.27
43,085.42

182
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

The City Record
Chief Radio Dispatcher............................................................
Chief Telephone Operator........................................................
Cocaine Treatment Supervisor...............................................
Composing Supervisor...............................................................
Consumer Protection Supervisor...........................................
Custodial Worker Supervisor.................................................
Personnel Analyst I...................................................................
Secretary to Board of Examiner
of Plumbers Board of Review (Electrical)..................
Secretary – Boxing and Wrestling Commission................
Superintendent of Maintenance.............................................
Superintendent of Street Cleaning.......................................
Superintendent of Waste Collection....................................
Supervisor of Income Tax Files...........................................
Supervisor of Storeroom and Mailing.................................

August 22, 2001
25,377.50
17,611.99
22,426.64
20,065.93
18,885.58
17,705.24
21,000.00

40,307.86
42,119.39
40,022.27
36,782.38
38,668.86
35,570.37
39,776.98

18,885.58
18,885.58
23,606.98
25,967.68
29,508.73
18,885.58
16,524.89

33,484.82
30,573.46
48,164.67
39,292.74
48,164.67
33,484.82
30,573.46

Section 28. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
14.
14.
15.
16.
18.
18.
19.
20.
21.
23.
24.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

Airport Maintenance Supervisor............................................
Assistant Chief Building Inspector.....................................
Assistant Chief Housing Inspector......................................
Assistant Custodian...................................................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electrical Generation.......
Bridge Inspector..........................................................................
Bureau Manager – Housing....................................................
Bureau Manager – Demolition...............................................
Bureau Manager – Building...................................................
Cable Production Manager......................................................
Chief Bridge Operator...............................................................
Chief of Electric Meter Bureau............................................
Chief Guard...................................................................................
Chief Safety Signal System....................................................
Chief Sidewalk Inspector.........................................................
Chief Street Permit Inspector................................................
Chief of Traffic Signal Unit..................................................
Community Development Code
Enforcement Inspector Supervisor...................................
Coordinator of Parking Enforcement.................................
Correctional Supervisor.............................................................
District Forester..........................................................................
Electric Bridge Operator Leader..........................................
Environmental Assistant..........................................................
Field Operations Forester........................................................
General Superintendent of Waste Collection...................
House Sergeant............................................................................
Instrumentation Supervisor.....................................................
Parking Meter Foreman...........................................................
Printing Foreman.......................................................................
Supervisor of Landscape Construction...............................
Supervisor of Parking Enforcement Unit.........................
Supervisor of Markets...............................................................
Supervisor of Weights and Measures.................................
Survey Party Chief....................................................................
Tunnel Maintenance Foreman...............................................
Tunnel Maintenance Man........................................................

Minimum
21,019.66
17,705.24
17,705.24
16,559.28
21,019.66
13,958.10
26,797.11
26,797.11
26,797.11
20,410.00
16,559.28
26,274.57
l5,764.74
$18.60 per hour
15,641.78
14,790.48
$18.60 per hour

Maximum
44,593.59
49,440.00
43,084.23
40,791.73
47,744.62
35,103.91
69,147.01
69,147.01
69,147.01
78,335.28
42,219.44
59,598.93
34,910.81
$30.98 per hour
38,672.07
36,782.38
$30.98 per hour

34,464.91
18,627.62
17,543.01
31,043.38
$ 8.55 per hour
17,705.24
32,445.00
30,473.96
13,137.29
29,200.50
24,679.38
28,404.92
17,078.47
18,262.21
14,790.48
14,790.48
18,099.87
17,078.47
15,764.72

47,858.90
44,071.82
43,085.42
49,108.56
$15.27 per hour
43,085.42
50,963.57
53,673.35
30,839.68
44,806.85
34,702.94
43,847.13
39,292.74
34,229.51
38,069.77
36,782.38
47,408.08
32,146.98
29,351.17

Section 29. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Airport Safety Supervisor........................................................

Minimum
38,762.61

Maximum
43,862.84

Section 30. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Accountant IV..............................................................................
Airport Operations Agent III.................................................
Assistant Bureau Chief-Demolition......................................
Assistant Financial Systems Coordinator..........................
Assistant Personnel Administrator......................................
Budget and Management Analyst........................................
Chief Dog Warden......................................................................
Labor Relations Assistant.......................................................

2118

Minimum
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62

Maximum
45,367.94
46,955.82
45,367.94
45,367.94
46,955.82
46,955.82
57,260.51
45,367.94

August 22, 2001
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

The City Record

Rehabilitation Supervisor........................................................
Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance................................
Supervisor of Architectural Construction..........................
Supervisor of Personnel Records..........................................
Supervisor of Site Development............................................
Supervisor of Vital Statistics.................................................
Systems Analyst..........................................................................
Water Plant Shift Supervisor ...............................................
Water Plant Shift Supervisor – Parma Control .................
Water System Construction Inspector Supervisor..............

183
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
18,627.62
$8.96 per hour
$8.96 per hour
18,627.62

45,367.94
45,367.94
46,975.00
45,367.94
45,367.94
46,955.82
45,367.94
$22.58 per hour
$22.58 per hour
46,955.82

Section 31. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Airport Maintenance Superintendent...................................
Assistant Commissioner of Recreation...............................
Assistant Contract Compliance Officer..............................
Assistant Director of Public Health Nurses....................
Assistant Income Tax Financial Supervisor....................
Assistant Manager of Audit
Control and Personnel..........................................................
Assistant Manager of Recreation.........................................
Assistant Superintendent of Pumping................................
Assistant Superintendent of Purification..........................
Auditor............................................................................................
Chief Alcoholism Coordinating Service..............................
Chief of the Demolition Bureau...........................................
Chief Plan Examiner................................................................
City Planner..................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of
Recreation-Fiscal Control.....................................................
Deputy Project Director...........................................................
District Supervisor - Environmental Health....................
Emergency Medical Technician Supervisor......................
Income Tax Supervisor.............................................................
Office of Professional Standards
Investigative Auditor............................................................
Office of Professional Standards
Research/Analyst....................................................................
Project Program Director of Consumer Affairs.............
Recreation Center Manager....................................................
Superintendent of Light Equipment Maintenance .............
Superintendent of Vehicle Administrative Services ..........
Supervisor Administrative
Services-Data Processing Center.......................................
Supervisor of Milk Program...................................................
Supervisor of Vector Control..................................................
Welfare Liaison...........................................................................

Minimum
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

Maximum
49,523.33
60,391.48
47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

49,523.33
47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63
49,523.33
47,848.63
47,848.63
49,523.33
49,523.33

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

60,391.48
52,888.99
47,848.63
49,523.33
47,848.63

19,784.74

47,848.63

19,784.74
19,784.74
32,500.00
19,784.74
19,784.74

47,848.63
47,848.63
60,391.48
47,848.63
47,848.63

19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74
19,784.74

47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63
47,848.63

Section 32. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Air Pollution Control, Engineer IV.....................................
Airport Safety Shift Commander..........................................
Assistant Administrator............................................................
Assistant Health Center Director.........................................
Assistant Manager of Marketing..........................................
Central Payroll Supervisor......................................................
Chief Building Inspector..........................................................
Chief Electrical Inspector.......................................................
Chief Elevator Inspector..........................................................
Chief Environmental Health-Engineering.........................
Chief Heating Inspector...........................................................
Chief Housing Inspector..........................................................
Chief Plumbing Inspector........................................................
Chief Rehabilitation Supervisor............................................
Contract Supervisor – Division of Purchases
and Supplies..............................................................................
Data Processing Supervisor....................................................
Human Resources Contract Administrator.......................
Manager of Public Utilities
Building Maintenance...........................................................
Senior Systems Analyst............................................................
Shift Supervisor Operations....................................................

2119

Minimum
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

Maximum
50,626.16
50,626.16
52,398.08
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
53,560.00
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
52,398.08
50,626.16
52,398.08

20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

50,626.16
50,626.16
67,572.45

20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

62,374.56
52,398.08
50,626.16

184
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

The City Record
Superintendent of Distribution..............................................
Superintendent of Pumping....................................................
Superintendent of Purification..............................................
Supervising Tax Auditor.........................................................
Supervisor of Civil Service Records....................................

August 22, 2001
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40
20,231.40

50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16
50,626.16

Section 33. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Airport Operations Superintendent.......................................
Airport Security Coordinator..................................................
Assistant Airport Safety Chief/ Training Officer.........
Assistant Chief of Pumping...................................................
Assistant Chief of Purification.............................................
Assistant Manager of Box Office.........................................
Assistant Manager-Human
Resources Planning and Management...........................
Assistant Manager of Stage...................................................
Chief of Bureau of Accounts and Collections.................
Chief of Bureau of Industrial Air Pollution...................
Chief of Bureau of Smoke Abatement...............................
Chief Engineer-Traffic..............................................................
Chief Senior Electric Switchboard Operator....................
Chief of Tax Auditing Bureau..............................................
Chief of Tax Records Bureau...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies.........
Grants Administrator.................................................................
Health Center Director.............................................................
Human Resources Fiscal Administrator............................
Income Tax Financial Supervisor........................................
Manager of Assigned Maintenance......................................
Manager of Parks and Recreation
Research and Planning........................................................
Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry.............................
Manager of Shops and Field Equipment..........................
Manager of Site Development................................................
Project Director...........................................................................
Programming Supervisor..........................................................
Superintendent of Sidewalks..................................................
Superintendent of Water Plant Maintenance...................
Warehouse Inventory Manager.............................................

Minimum
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40
23,333.40

Maximum
55,412.00
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
57,074.36

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
62,374.56
55,412.00
55,412.00
53,538.16
62,374.56
62,374.56
62,374.56
53,538.16
53,538.16
62,374.56

22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40

62,374.56
62,374.56
62,374.56
62,374.56
67,572.45
53,538.16
53,538.16
53,538.16
67,572.45

Section 34. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Accountant Supervisor..............................................................
Assistant Chief of Water Distribution...............................
Assistant Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses...................................................
Assistant Commissioner, Division
of Printing and Reproduction............................................
Assistant Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.....................................
Building Manager.......................................................................
Chief Architect.............................................................................
Chief Auditor – Utilities..........................................................
Chief City Planner.....................................................................
Chief, Computer Operations....................................................
Chief Engineer – Civil.............................................................
Chief Engineer – Mechanical.................................................
Chief Legal Investigator – Civil Branch..........................
Chief of Street Lighting and Electrical Services ..............
Chief of Laboratories................................................................
Chief of Purification.................................................................
Chief Surveyor.............................................................................
Convention Manager..................................................................
Financial Systems Coordinator..............................................
Fiscal Manager............................................................................
Investment Manager..................................................................
Manager of Enterprise Unit...................................................
Manager of Events.....................................................................
Manager of General Maintenance........................................
Manager of Markets..................................................................
Manager of Parking..................................................................

2120

Minimum
23,647.11
23,647.11

Maximum
56,409.20
58,383.52

23,647.11

56,409.20

23,647.11

71,196.07

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

71,196.07
65,719.45
71,196.07
71,196.07
58,383.52
71,196.07
71,196.07
71,196.07
56,409.20
58,383.52
56,409.20
58,383.52
56,409.20
65,719.45
56,409.20
71,196.07
71,196.07
65,719.45
65,719.45
65,719.45
65,719.45
65,719.45

August 22, 2001
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

The City Record

Manager of Production Power Generation.......................
Manager of Recreation.............................................................
Purchasing Supervisor – Division
of Purchases and Supplies..................................................
Secretary to the Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals...........................................................
Secretary to the Board of Zoning Appeals......................
Security Manager – Convention Center..............................
Senior Internal Auditor............................................................
Senior Programmer Analyst...................................................
Supervisor of Food and Drug Administration.................
Supervisor – Information Control.........................................
Theatrical Manager....................................................................
Water Plant Manager...............................................................

185
23,647.11
40,000.00

65,719.45
65,719.45

23,647.11

56,409.20

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

56,409.20
56,409.20
65,719.45
56,409.20
58,383.52
56,409.20
56,409.20
56,409.20
71,196.07

Section 35. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Airport Maintenance Manager...............................................
Airport Operations Manager...................................................
Airport Safety Chief..................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Administrative Services........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Building and Housing...........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Cleveland
Public Power............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles Maintenance...............................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Neighborhood Development.................................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Neighborhood Revitalization...............................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Neighborhood Services..........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Streets.......................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Waste Collection and Disposal..........................................
Assistant Commissioner of
Water Pollution Control.......................................................
Assistant Director of Community
Relations Board.......................................................................
Assistant Income Tax Administrator..................................
Assistant Superintendent of
Electric Transmission and Distribution.........................
Chief of Air Pollution Enforcement....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Engineering....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Information Systems....................
Chief of Air Pollution Monitoring.......................................
Chief Civil Service Examiner................................................
Chief of Pharmacy Services...................................................
Chief of Pumping.......................................................................
Chief of Water Distribution...................................................
Chief Training Officer..............................................................
City Hall Custodian...................................................................
Community Development Executive Assistant................
Contract Compliance Officer...................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Accounts......................................
Deputy Commissioner of
Air Pollution Control.............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Airports........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention
Center and Stadium...............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention
Center and Stadium/West Side Market.........................
Deputy Commissioner of Maintenance...............................
Deputy Commissioner of
Parks and Urban Forestry..................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Urban
Forestry/Golf Courses and Cemeteries..........................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation...................................
Director of Public Health Nurses.........................................
Fair Housing Administrator...................................................
General Manager of Administrative Services..................

2121

Minimum
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

Maximum
75,220.35
75,220.35
75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96
26,273.96

75,220.35
75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96

75,220.35

26,273.96
26,273.96

75,220.35
61,683.57

26,273.96
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
22,333.40
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

61,683.57
67,572.45
67,572.45
67,572.45
67,572.45
59,597.65
75,220.35
59,597.65
61,683.57
59,597.65
59,597.65
75,220.35
59,597.65
69,434.16

26,273.96
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16

26,273.96

69,434.16

26,273.96
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16

26,273.96

69,434.16

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
31,500.00
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16
69,434.16
74,126.31
75,220.35

186

The City Record

41.
42.

Office of Professional Standards Administrator.............
Manager of Human Resources
Program Planning and Management..............................
Personnel Administrator..........................................................
Senior Budget and Management Analyst..........................
Superintendent of Industrial Claims...................................
Superintendent of Motorized Equipment...........................
Utilities Comptroller..................................................................

43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

August 22, 2001
26,273.96

59,597.65

26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96
26,273.96

69,434.16
69,434.16
65,875.66
59,597.65
59,597.65
75,220.35

Section 36. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission........
Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation.......................
Chief-Systems Analysis.............................................................
Consulting Engineer..................................................................
Harbor Manager..........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Architecture..........................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications...............
Manager of Education and Research.................................
Manager of Employee Accident Control............................
Manager of Employee Relations..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Manager of Recruitment..........................................................
Minority Business Development Administrator...............
Project Coordinator....................................................................
Risk Manager...............................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations..............

Minimum
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
36,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

Maximum
82,334.04
82,334.04
65,233.88
82,334.04
79,953.75
82,334.04
65,233.88
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
76,000.64
65,233.88
76,000.64
82,334.04
65,233.88

Section 37. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

Administrator of Engineering and Planning...................
Airport Chief Engineer.............................................................
Airport Planning Environmental Officer...........................
Air Trade Development Manager.........................................
Assistant Director of Human
Resources and Economic Development..........................
Budget Administrator................................................................
Chief of Personnel Management...........................................
Comptroller-Airports...................................................................
Data Base Analyst.....................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Building and Housing............
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport...........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks,
Maintenance and Properties...............................................
Deputy Commissioner of Water............................................
Deputy Commissioner of
Water Pollution Control.......................................................
Executive Commissioner for Administration
of Department of Finance...................................................
Executive Commissioner of
Parks and Urban Forestry..................................................
Field Manager..............................................................................
Hardware Analyst......................................................................
Labor Relations Manager........................................................
Manager of Electric System Operation..............................
Manager of Human Resources
Monitoring and Evaluation.................................................
Manager of Marketing..............................................................
Manager of Properties..............................................................
Manager of Public Service Operations...............................
Manager of Telecommunications..........................................
Permit Review Manager..........................................................
Project Leader/Applications...................................................
Software Analyst.........................................................................
Superintendent of Electric
Transmission and Distribution..........................................

2122

Minimum
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

Maximum
94,711.57
94,711.57
75,040.70
87,426.05

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

94,711.57
87,426.05
87,426.05
94,711.57
75,040.70
87,426.05

30,214.95

87,426.05

30,214.95
30,214.95

87,426.05
87,426.05

30,214.95

87,426.05

30,214.95

87,426.05

30,214.95
35,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

87,426.05
50,032.25
87,426.05
94,711.57
87,426.05

30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95
35,000.00
30,214.95
30,214.95

87,426.05
87,426.05
87,426.05
87,426.05
87,426.05
55,168.09
75,040.70
75,040.70

30,214.95

75,040.70

August 22, 2001
30.
31.
32.
33.

The City Record

Supervisor of Computer Operations.....................................
Supervisor Hardware Evaluation.........................................
Telecommunications Analyst..................................................
Veterinarian in Charge
of Spay and Neuter Clinic...................................................

187
30,214.95
30,214.95
30,214.95

75,040.70
75,040.70
75,040.70

30,214.95

75,040.70

Section 38. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

City Comptroller..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Commissioner of Accounts......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative
Services – Community Development................................
Commissioner of Architecture................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Building and Housing............................
Commissioner of Burke Airport............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport...........................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power........................
Commissioner of Convention Center....................................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services...............
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections..............................
Commissioner of Information Systems Services.............
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Revitalization................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties.....
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies.........................
Commissioner of Recreation...................................................
Commissioner of Research/
Planning and Development.................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and Parking ........
Commissioner of Utilities Engineering..............................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control........................
Income Tax Administrator......................................................
Manager of Internal Audit.....................................................

Minimum
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52

Maximum
116,035.06
107,109.29
111,153.61

38,951.52
41,312.22
38,951.52
43,672.91
38,951.52

111,153.61
124,285.10
102,603.34
123,357.18
102,603.34

41,312.22
43,672.91
43,672.91
41,312.22
43,672.91
41,312.22
43,672.91
38,951.52
50,951.52
38,951.52
38,951.52
41,312.22
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52
38,951.52
43,672.91
41,312.22
41,312.22

124,285.10
123,357.18
113,868.17
116,035.06
123,357.18
116,035.06
123,357.18
102,603.34
123,357.18
111,153.61
102,603.34
107,109.29
107,109.29
124,285.10
111,153.61
111,153.61
123,357.18
107,109.20
124,285.10

38,951.52
38,951.52
41,312.22
41,312.22
38,951.52
38,951.52
43,672.91
38,951.52
41,312.22
38,951.52

111,153.61
111,153.61
107,109.29
102,603.34
102,603.34
111,153.61
123,357.18
111,153.61
116,035.06
102,603.34

Section 39. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Assistant Manager – Applications
Development and Technical Support...............................
Assistant Manager – Data Processing Operations ............
Assistant to Manager of Planning......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power............

Minimum

Maximum

46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91
46,224.91

105,065.57
96,983.62
96,983.62
96,983.62

Section 40. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Data Base
Supervisor
Supervisor
Supervisor

Administrator.........................................................
Applications Development.................................
Software Support..................................................
Quality Assurance................................................

Minimum
39,937.34
39,937.34
39,937.34
39,937.34

Maximum
92,409.52
73,216.78
73,216.78
73,216.78

Section 41. That the appointing authority shall fix the salary of the Manager, Data Processing Center, at not
less than $50,540.00 per annum and not more than $108,501.60 per annum. Moreover, not more than one person shall
be appointed to such classification.

2123

The City Record

188

August 22, 2001

Section 42. Part-Time/Seasonal Group
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Box Office Cashier.....................................................................
Chaplain..........................................................................................
Checker...........................................................................................
Conservation Aide.......................................................................
Dentist.............................................................................................
Head Usher....................................................................................
Medical Examiner.......................................................................
Organ Tuner.................................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide............................................................
Ranger.............................................................................................
School Crossing Guard..............................................................
Section Supervisor.......................................................................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator..........................................
Stage Hand....................................................................................
Stage Hand Casual.....................................................................
Stage Hand - Show Rate.........................................................
Student Aide.................................................................................
Student Assistant........................................................................
Usher................................................................................................
Usher Captain...............................................................................

$10.33
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$13.38
$ 8.20
$21.40
$ 9.63
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$2 5 . 0 0
$ 8.20
$10.40
$18.55
$20.00
$63.00
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$ 8.20
$ 8.20

Minimum
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per day
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour
per show
per hour
per hour
per hour
per hour

Maximum
$13.97 per hour
$11.04 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$27.48 per hour
$10.91 per hour
$56.36 per hour
$24.11 per hour
$ 8.25 per hour
$10.77 per hour
$25.00 per day
$ 8.20 per hour
$13.56 per hour
$24.66 per hour
$24.35 per hour
$81.02 per show
$ 8.33 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour
$ 8.20 per hour

Section 43. Hourly Rate — Crafts
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

Asbestos Worker
Asphalt Construction Foreman
Asphalt Raker
Asphalt Tamper
Boiler Maker
Bricklayer
Bricklayer Foreman
Bricklayer Helper
Carpenter
Carpenter Foreman
Carpenter Apprentice
Cement Finisher
Cement Finisher Foreman
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group A
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group B
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group C
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group D
Construction Equipment
Operator – Group E
Construction Equipment
Operator – Oiler – Group F
Curb Cutter
Electrical Worker
Electrical Worker Foreman
Glazier
Ironworker
Ironworker Foreman
Jackhammer Operator
Master Mechanic
Overhead Floodlight Maintenance Man
Painter
Painter – Apprentice
Painter Foreman
Paver
Paving Foreman
Pipefitter (Welder)
Pipefitter Foreman
Plasterer

2124

Effective
Date

Minimum

Maximum

5-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-00
5-1-00
1-1-01
7-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01

$30.18
20.10
19.27
19.27
30.56
31.68
26.32
27.57
19.79
26.05
27.30
8.20
26.46
27.71

$37.73
30.15
28.91
28.91
38.20
39.60
32.90
33.90
29.69
32.56
33.81
16.43
33.08
34.08

5-1-01

27.42

31.03

5-1-01

27.27

30.88

5-1-01

26.22

29.83

5-1-01

25.44

29.05

5-1-01

25.12

28.73

5-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
8-1-01
8-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
6-1-01
5-1-01
6-1-01
5-1-00
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01

18.54
19.70
30.96
32.21
26.08
30.22
31.47
19.27
27.92
21.19
25.54
8.20
26.79
19.54
20.10
31.42
32.67
26.14

22.15
29.55
38.70
39.70
32.60
37.78
38.78
28.91
31.53
26.49
31.93
14.89
32.93
29.31
30.15
39.28
40.28
32.67

August 22, 2001
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

The City Record

Plasterer Foreman
Plumber (Welder)
Plumber Foreman
Roofer
Sheet Metal Worker
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman
Sign Painter
Sign Painter Unit Leader
Spray Painter
Superintendent of Construction Equipment

189
5-1-00
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
5-1-01
4-1-00
4-1-00
4-1-00
5-1-00

26.52
31.10
32.35
26.70
29.62
30.87
22.55
23.55
20.22
20.10

32.84
38.87
39.87
33.37
37.02
38.02
26.51
27.51
24.16
30.15

Section 44. Municipal Court Employees
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.

Associate Director.......................................................................
Bailiff..............................................................................................
Chief Deputy Bailiff..................................................................
Chief Magistrate..........................................................................
Chief Probation Officer............................................................
Clinical Director..........................................................................
Deputy Bailiff..............................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Administrative Assistant – Finance .........
Deputy Bailiff Administrative
Assistant – Operations..........................................................
Deputy Bailiff Assistant
Director of Data Processing...............................................
Deputy Bailiff Assistant
Jury Commissioner.................................................................
Deputy Bailiff Central Scheduling Director.....................
Deputy Bailiff Chief Court Reporter..................................
Deputy Bailiff Clerk Typist...................................................
Deputy Bailiff – Court Administrator................................
Deputy Bailiff – Court Reporter...........................................
Deputy Bailiff Data Processor..............................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Court Administrator....................
Deputy Bailiff/Deputy Court Administrator
Chief Information Officer....................................................
Deputy Bailiff Deputy Chief Court Reporter..................
Deputy Bailiff Director of Data Processing....................
Deputy Bailiff Finance Officer.............................................
Deputy Bailiff General.............................................................
Deputy Bailiff Jury Commissioner......................................
Deputy Bailiff Law Clerk.......................................................
Deputy Chief Magistrate..........................................................
Deputy Bailiff – Office Manager..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Private Secretary..........................................
Deputy Bailiff Public Information Officer.......................
Deputy Bailiff Scheduler I......................................................
Deputy Bailiff Session Room Supervisor...........................
Deputy Bailiff – Special Projects Officer.........................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor........................................................
Deputy Bailiff Systems Analyst...........................................
Deputy Bailiff Training Officer............................................
Deputy Chief Probation Officer............................................
Immobilization Officer..............................................................
Magistrate......................................................................................
Municipal Court Psychologist................................................
Personal Bailiff...........................................................................
Probation Officer General.......................................................
Probation Officer Supervisor..................................................
Psychiatric Case Worker.........................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Small Claims Magistrate..........................................................
Student Aide.................................................................................
Traffic Court Magistrate.........................................................

$18.47

$15.60
$47.74

$60.00
$5.15

Minimum
37,783.00
36,085.00
37,569.00
48,620.00
50,395.00
37,783.00
21,424.00
39,173.00

Maximum
68,085.41
61,110.54
69,929.78
75,514.64
75,514.64
68,085.41
47,610.00
58,208.40

39,173.00

58,208.40

22,223.00

54,901.58

21,907.00
41,755.17
41,755.00
19,526.00
62,624.00
22,914.00
21,100.00
45,486.00

49,943.93
69,955.65
65,789.78
29,249.10
84,870.00
50,936.49
47,145.29
72,953.01

45,486.00
22,923.00
58,349.00
39,173.00
21,424.00
37,783.00
21,250.00
40,752.00
39,827.00
20,112.00
per hour
22,284.00
22,284.00
30,000.00
41,368.00
35,000.00
31,000.00
42,318.00
per hour
40,752.00
per hour
43,285.00
28,585.00
48,616.00
21,681.00
21,907.00
per hour
20,687.00
per hour
40,752.00

84,870.00
52,450.70
87,870.00
58,208.40
50,715.00
59,875.79
44,519.49
66,794.76
69,641.01
31,629.60
per hour
44,752.37
49,957.38
58,995.00
61,110.54
56,925,00
58,995.00
67,409.55
per hour
66,794.76
per hour
60,030.00
51,139.35
67,908.42
51,139.35
50,978.93
per hour
50,223.38
per hour
65,944.00

$34.74

$24.69
$93.15

$86.94
$8.80

Section 45. Division of Police; Chief of Police and Deputy Chief of Police
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.

Rank
Chief of Police.............................................................................
Deputy Chief of Police.............................................................

2125

Minimum
$69,682.20
63,966.00

Maximum
$143,720.49
121,083.26

The City Record

190

August 22, 2001

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 171.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Chief of Police shall not be entitled to receive any overtime compensation while serving as Chief
of Police.
Section 46. Division of Police; Supervisory Ranks
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Police shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:
Rank

Minimum

Maximum

1.

Commander of Police................................................................

$78,432.29

$78,932.29

2.

Deputy Inspector.........................................................................

78,432.29

78,932.29

3.

Captain............................................................................................

67,544.32

68,044.32

4.

Lieutenant......................................................................................

58,159.12

58,659.12

5.

Sergeant..........................................................................................

50,068.17

50,568.17

Section 47. Division of Police; Patrol Officers
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the ranks of patrol officer shall be fixed by the appointing authority
within the limits established in the following schedules:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Patrol Officer I............................................................................

$43,093.84

$43,593.84

2.

Patrol Officer II..........................................................................

39,379.83

39,379.83

3.

Patrol Officer III........................................................................

38,879.83

38,879.83

4.

Patrol Officer IV.........................................................................

37,879.83

37,879.83

5.

Trainee............................................................................................

$8.50 per hour

$8.50 per hour

Section 48. Division of Police; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be
fixed by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Junior Assistant Secretary of Police..................................

$26,213.25

$50,183.80

2.

Surgeon of Police........................................................................

43,107.75

67,569.79

3.

Superintendent of Criminalistics...........................................

30,086.70

61,297.84

4.

Superintendent of Safety Buildings.....................................

30,086.70

59,224.97

Section 49. Division of Fire; Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Fire Chief ....................................................................................

$64,407.00

$143,720.49

2.

Assistant Fire Chief ................................................................

56,790.30

107,788.95

Section 50. Division of Fire; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Battalion Chief.............................................................................

$67,545.44

$68,045.44

2.

Captain............................................................................................

58,159.87

58,659.87

3.

Lieutenant......................................................................................

50,068.85

50,568.85

4.

Firefighter
Journeyman...................................................................................

43,093.84

43,593.84

Apprentice – Medic III.........................................................

39,379.83

39,379.83

Apprentice – Medic II...........................................................

38,879.83

38,879.83

Apprentice – Medic I.............................................................

37,879.83

37,879.83

Trainee........................................................................................

$ 8.50 per hour

$ 8.50 per hour

Section 51. That existing Ordinance No. 434-2000, passed March 20, 2000, as from time to time amended, be and
the same is hereby repealed, effective April 1, 2001.
Section 52. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2126

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1563-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Brothers Printing Company for business cards and note pads for the
Clerk of Council on behalf of the City
Council for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for business cards and note pads for
a period of two years to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1564-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Cleveland Letter Service for ward
mailing services for the Clerk of
Council on behalf of the City Council for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for ward mailing services for a period of two years to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Council of the City of Cleveland.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1565-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Legal News Publishing Company for
the printing services for ward mailings for the Clerk of Council on
behalf of the City Council for a
period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for printing services for ward mailings for a period of two years to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

2127

191
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1566-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Orange Blossom Press for expedited
printing services for the Clerk of
Council on behalf of the City Council for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for expedited printing services for a
period of two years to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1567-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Clerk of Council to enter into a contract with
Orange Blossom Press for letterhead
and envelopes for the Clerk of Council on behalf of the City Council for
a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

192
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for letterhead and envelopes for a
period of two years to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account,
(Fund No. 01 Organization 010101
Account 632000 RL 18136), and the
Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Said
requirement contract shall provide
that the contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the Council’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1568-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 3 of Ordinance No. 50301, passed June 19, 2001, relating to
constructing
the
North
Shore
Collinwood Town Center at the triangle of East 174th Street and
Lakeshore Boulevard.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 503-01, passed June 19,
2001, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 3. That an amount not to
exceed Eighty-six Thousand Dollars
($86,000) for said improvement shall
be paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166,
Request No. 5092.
Section 2. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 503-01, passed June 19,
2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1569-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 623.091 thereof, relating
to vandalism of memorials for the
safety forces.
Whereas, this Council recognizes
and honors the tremendous sacrifice
made by police officers and firefighters who have died in the line
of duty while safeguarding the citizens of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that it is fitting that those police
officers, firefighters, and their families should be honored and remembered by the erection and maintenance of memorials; and
Whereas, this Council is appalled
that individuals have chosen to
deface and damage the memorials to
the safety forces through such reckless and thoughtless acts as using
the police officer memorial as recreational equipment for skate boarding, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 623.091 to read as follows:
Section
623.091
Vandalism
to
Police and Firefighter Memorials
(a) No person shall purposely
mar, injure, deface, damage or otherwise
physically
mistreat
the
Police
Memorial
or
Firefighter
Memorial.
(b) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of desecration, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1570-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron
and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 103.13 and 103.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1177-01, passed June 11, 2001, relating to the boundaries of Wards 13
and 14 of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 103.13 and
103.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1177-01, passed June
11, 2001, are hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:

2128

August 22, 2001
Section 103.13 Ward Thirteen
The boundaries of Ward 13 shall
be as follows:
Beginning in the center line of the
Cuyahoga River at its entrance to
Lake
Erie;
thence
southeasterly
along the center line of the Cuyahoga River to its intersection with
the center line of the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel; thence southwesterly, westerly, southwesterly and
westerly along the Old Riverbed and
Ship Channel to its intersection with
the center line of the northerly prolongation of the center line of West
45th Street; thence southerly along
the northerly prolongation and the
center line of West 45th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Franklin Boulevard, N.W,; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Franklin Boulevard, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 47th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 47th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Wales Court, N.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Wales Court, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
46th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of West 46th Place to
its intersection with the center line
of Taylor Court, N.W.; thence westerly along the center line of Taylor
Court, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lorain Avenue; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 25th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Bridge Avenue, N.W.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Bridge Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
22nd Street; thence southeasterly
along the center line of West 22nd
Street and its prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
the RTA main line tracks; thence
northerly along the center line of the
RTA main line tracks and bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of Franklin Avenue, N.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Franklin Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Columbus
Road,
N.W.;
thence
northerly along the center line of
Columbus Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
RTA bridge; thence northerly along
the center line of the RTA bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River easterly, northeasterly, northwesterly, easterly, southeasterly and southwesterly to its
intersection with the center line of
the Hope Memorial Bridge; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the Hope Memorial Bridge to its
intersection with the northeasterly
right of way line of the former Erie
Railroad; thence northwesterly along
the northeasterly line of the right of
way of the former Erie Railroad to
its intersection with the center line
of Columbus Road; thence southerly
along the center line of Columbus
Road to its intersection with the center line of Moore Avenue; thence
easterly along the center line of
Moore Avenue to its intersection

August 22, 2001
with the center line of West 20
Street; thence southwesterly along
the center line of West 20 Street to
its intersection with the center line
of
the Hope Memorial Bridge and
the center line of Lorain Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of West 21st Place; thence southerly
along the center line of West 21st
Place to its intersection with the
center line of Abbey Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Abbey Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with West 20th Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
West 20th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Freeman
Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly along
the center line of Freeman Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West 19th Street; thence
southerly, westerly and southerly
along the center line of West 19th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Willey Avenue, S.W.;
thence southeasterly and easterly
along the center line of Willey
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Scranton Road,
S.W.;
thence
continuing
easterly
along the center line of Kenilworth
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Interstate 71;
thence southwesterly, southeasterly
and southwesterly along the center
line of Interstate 71 to its intersection with the center line of Jennings
Road, S.W.; thence in a general
southeasterly and southerly direction along the center line of Jennings Road, S.W. to its intersection
with the center line of Belt Line
Street, S.W.; thence easterly along
the center line of Belt Line Street to
its intersection with the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad; thence northeasterly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River in a northerly and
northeasterly direction to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad,
thence southerly along the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad to its intersection with
the center line of Campbell Road,
S.E.; thence easterly, northeasterly
and easterly along the center line of
Campbell Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Independence Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Independence Road, S.E. to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly line
of sublot number 57 in the Caroline
Beyerle’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot Number 286 and
287 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 12 of Maps, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence southwesterly along the northeasterly prolongation and the northwesterly line
of sublot number 57 to the most
westerly corner of sublot number 57;
thence
southeasterly
along
the
southwesterly line of sublot numbers
57, 56, 55, 54, 53, 52, 51 and its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the center line of Reeves
Road, S.E. (now vacated); thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Reeves Road, S.E. (now vacated)
to its intersection with the center
line of Beyerle Road, S.E.; thence
southeasterly along the center line
of Beyerle Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Beyerle Place, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Beyerle
Place, S.E. to its intersection with

The City Record
the center line of Independence
Road,
S.E.;
thence
southeasterly
along the center line of Independence Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 47th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 47th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Chard Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Chard
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Interstate 77;
thence northerly along the center
line of Interstate 77 to its intersection with the center line of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer
to its intersection with the center
line of the Cuyahoga River; thence
northwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along the meandering center line of the Cuyahoga River to its
intersection with the center line of
West 3rd Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of West 3rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge; thence northeasterly along
the center line of the Hope Memorial Bridge and the center line of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
9th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 9th Street to
its intersection with the northwesterly right of way line of the Inner
Belt Freeway; thence northeasterly
along the northwesterly right of
way line of the Inner Belt Freeway
to its intersection with the center
line of East 13th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 13th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 14th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of East 14th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Huntington Court, S.E. (now vacated); thence northeasterly along the
center line of Huntington Court, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 18th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 18th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Euclid
Avenue; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Euclid Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of the Inner Belt Freeway; thence
northerly along the center line of the
Inner Belt Freeway to its intersection with the center line of Chester
Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Chester
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 40th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 40th Street to its intersection with the center line of Payne
Avenue,
N.E,; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Payne
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 45th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of East 45th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Superior Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly and easterly along the center line of Superior Avenue, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of
Norwood
Road,
N.E.;
thence
northerly along the center line of
Norwood Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Bonna
Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Bonna
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Addison Road,
N.E.; thence northeasterly along the
center line of Addison Road, N.E. to

2129

193
its intersection with the center line
of Bliss Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 66th
Street; thence southeasterly along
the center line of East 66th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of Bliss Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Bliss
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 68th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of East 68th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
St. Clair Avenue, N.E.; thence southwesterly along the center line of St.
Clair Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Addison
Road, N.E.; thence northerly along
the center line of Addison Road, N.E.
and its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
the main line tracks of the CSX Railroad; thence southwesterly along the
center line of the main line tracks
of the CSX Railroad to its intersection with the center line of East 55th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 55th Street and
its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the shore line of
Lake Erie; thence in a general
southwesterly direction along the
irregular shore line of Lake Erie to
its intersection with the entrance to
the Cuyahoga River and the place of
beginning.
Section 103.14 Ward Fourteen
The boundaries of Ward 14 shall
be as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lorain Avenue
and the center line of West 48th
Street; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Lorain Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of West 25th Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of
West 25th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Bridge
Avenue, N. W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Bridge
Avenue, N. W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 22nd
Street; thence southeasterly along
the center line of West 22nd Street
and its prolongation to its intersection with the center line of the RTA
main line tracks; thence northerly
along the center line of the RTA
main line tracks and bridge to its
intersection with the center line of
Franklin Avenue, N.W.; thence easterly
along
the
center
line
of
Franklin Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Columbus
Road,
N.W.;
thence
northerly along the center line of
Columbus Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
RTA bridge; thence northerly along
the center line of the RTA bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River easterly, northeasterly, northwesterly, easterly, southeasterly and southwesterly to its
intersection with the center line of
the Hope Memorial Bridge; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the Hope Memorial Bridge to its
intersection with the northeasterly
right of way line of the former Erie
Railroad;
thence
northwesterly
along the northeasterly line of the
right of way of the former Erie
Railroad to its intersection with the

194
center
line
of
Columbus
Road;
thence southerly along the center
line of Columbus Road to its intersection with the center line of Moore
Avenue; thence easterly along the
center line of Moore Avenue to its
intersection with the center line of
West 20 Street; thence southwesterly along the center line of West 20
Street to its intersection with the
center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge and the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 21st Place;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 21st Place to its intersection with the center line of
Abbey Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Abbey
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
West 20th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 20th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Freeman Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Freeman Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 19th Street; thence southerly, westerly and southerly along the
center line of West 19th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Willey Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly and easterly along the center line of Willey Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Scranton Road, S.W.; thence continuing easterly along the center
line of Kenilworth Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 71; thence southwesterly, southeasterly and southwesterly along the center line of Interstate
71 to its intersection with the center line of West 25th Street; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of West 25th Street to its intersection with the center line of Scranton
Road, S.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Scranton
Road, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Ketteringham
Road, S.W. formerly known as View
Road, S.W. (now vacated); thence
easterly, northeasterly and northerly along the center line of Ketteringham Road, S.W. (now vacated) to
its intersection with the center line
of South Point Drive, S.W.; thence
westerly, southwesterly and westerly along the center line of South
Point Drive, S.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 25th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Woodbridge Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Woodbridge Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 35th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 35th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Tyler Court, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Tyler Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
32nd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 32nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
35th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 35th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Court, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
39th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of West 39th Place
to its intersection with the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W.; thence

The City Record
westerly along the center line of
Bush Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
41st Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 41st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Fulton Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Fulton Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Poe
Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Poe Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West 44th Place; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of West 44th Place to its intersection with Hodgson Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Hodgson Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 44th Street; thence northerly along the center line of West 44th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Bush Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 46th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 46th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 52nd Street; thence northeasterly along the center line of West
52nd Street to its intersection with
the center line of Storer Avenue,
S.W.; thence westerly along the center line of Storer Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 53rd Street; thence northerly
along the center line of West 53rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Field Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Field Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
52nd Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 52nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Clark Avenue, S.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Clark Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
51st Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 51st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Train Avenue, S. W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Train Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
44th Street; thence in a general
northerly direction along the center
line of West 44th Street to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence westerly along the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad to its intersection with
the southerly prolongation of West
48th Street; thence northerly along
the southerly prolongation and the
center line of West 48th Street to
the place of beginning.
Section 2. That existing Sections
103.13 and 103.14 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1177-01,
passed June 11, 2001, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

2130

August 22, 2001
Ord. No. 1571-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Finance to immediately deposit funds from the General Fund into the Neighborhood Equity Fund and the Ward Capital
Improvement Fund.
Whereas, it was Council’s clear
intention
that
the
Neighborhood
Equity Fund and the Ward Capital
Improvement Fund should be fully
funded
and
retain
all
interest
earned by monies deposited into
said funds, and such funds have not
been so funded; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to immediately deposit from the
General Fund into the Neighborhood Equity Fund, Fund No. 10,
Sub-Fund No. 166, the amount of
Ten Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($10,500,000.00), and
into the Ward Capital Improvement
Fund, Fund No. 10, Sub-Fund No.
168, the amount of Five Million
Five Hundred Seventeen Thousand
Four Hundred Thirty Seven Dollars
($5,517,437.00).
These
respective
amounts are hereby encumbered
within the General Fund for deposit
in said Funds and the purposes of
said Funds.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1572-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Finance to immediately deposit funds from the Capital
Sidewalk Improvements Fund within the General Fund into the Ward
Capital Improvement Fund.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to immediately deposit Six Million
One Hundred Sixty Seven Thousand Four Hundred Thirty Seven
Dollars ($6,167,437.00) from Fund
No. 20, Sub-fund No. 375, which is
denominated the “Capital Sidewalk
Improvements” fund, of the General Fund, into the Ward Capital
Improvement Fund, Fund No. 10,
Sub-Fund No. 168. These respective
amounts are hereby encumbered
within
the
General
Fund
for
deposit
in
said
Ward
Capital
Improvement Fund for the purposes of said Fund.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

August 22, 2001
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1573-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Slavic Village Development Corporation for Architectural Feasibility
Study through the use of Ward 12
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Slavic Village Development
Corporation for Architectural Feasibility Study on the following properties; St. Hyacinth Parish Buildings
at 6114 Franel Street, Our Lady of
Lourdes Convent at 3395 East 53rd
Street, Holy Name School at 8238
Broadway Avenue, and J.L. Goodman Building at 8238 Broadway
Avenue, for the public purpose of
promoting commercial and residential development in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $34,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1574-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Neighborhood Progress
Inc. to provide a Ward 18 Cudell
Community Planning and Assessment Process through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Neighborhood Progress Inc. to
provide a Ward 18 Cudell Community
Planning
and
Assessment
Process for the public purpose of
providing a strategic educational
planning program for local community leadership to develop, promote,
and
implement
a
comprehensive
community
plan
for
Ward
18,
through the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1575-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 8th Annual NE Ohio
Race for the Cure, on September 16,
2001, sponsored by Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 8th Annual NE
Ohio Race for the Cure sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems, on September
16, 2001, beginning at East Blvd. and
Euclid Avenue, Euclid Avenue to
Chester, Chester to MLK, MLK to
Superior Avenue Ramp, Superior
Avenue Ramp to East Blvd., East
Blvd. to Wade Oval, Wade Oval to
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

2131

195
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1654-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with the Westside Industrial Retention & Expansion Network for Industrial Retention and Public Safety
Programs through the use of Ward
18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Westside Industrial Retention
&
Expansion
Network
for
Industrial
Retention
and
Public
Safety Programs, for the public purpose of promoting industrial retention,
and
expansion,
community
improvements to the neighborhood
commercial district, and the implementation of community policing to
enhance the safety of residents, and
area businesses, through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $92,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 15, 2001.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Wednesday, August 15, 2001
Public Parks, Property and Recreation
Committee
(Joint
with
Finance Committee): 10:00 a.m. —
Present: Rybka, Chairman; Dolan,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Johnson,
Reed, Sweeney. Excused: Britt.
Finance Committee (Joint with
Public Parks, Property and Recreation Committee): 10:00 a.m. — Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Polensek,
Sweeney. Excused: Britt, White.
Finance Committee: 10:30 a.m. —
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.

The City Record

196

August 22, 2001

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Aging Department
Senior Citizen Social Support Program — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corp. — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 6) (O 1514-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Appreciation
Alexander, Jr., Rev. Edward & Mrs. Louise — Ward 7 (R 1482-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Banners
E. 82nd St. & Hough Ave. — permit — Ministerial Day Care (O 1546-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1968-2097
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive — permit — Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation
(O 1552-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1978-2106
Pearl Rd., Denison Ave. & Fulton Rd. — permit — Archwood Denison Concerned
Citizens (Ward 15) (O 1532-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1963-2092
Scranton Rd., W. 25th St., Sackett Ave., Southpoint & MetroHealth Drives — permit (Ward
14) (O 1524-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1960-2090
W. 41st St. & Clark Ave. & on Fulton, Daisy, Barber & Wade — permit (Ward 14)
(O 1523-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1960-2089
Board of Education
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs – 2001-2002 school year
(O 850-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2071
Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
East 116th Street, 4020, (Ward 2) – Russell Stewart c/o Fortress Environmental
& Construction Corporation, owner – appeal adopted on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-70-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
East 45th Street, 1546, (Ward 13) – Victoria Carr, owner – appeal resolved on
8/15/01 (Doc. A-95-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
East 74th Street, 3620, (Ward 12) – Liberty Savings Bank, F.S.B., mortgagee – appeal
resolved on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-89-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
East Boulevard, 11030, (Ward 8) – Cleveland Botanical Garden, owner – appeal adopted on
8/15/01 (Doc. A-115-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Elm Street, 2510, (Ward 13) – Dean Salivaras (Mirage On The Water Inc.), owner – appeal
resolved on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-82-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
Euclid Avenue, 3614, (Ward 5) – US Tommy, owner – appeal adopted on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-103-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Franklin Boulevard, 3600, (Ward 13) – Franklin Boulevard Nursing Home, owner
- appeal postponed to 9/12/01 on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-128-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Huron Road, 921, (Ward 13) – Howell Building L.L.C., owner – appeal amended and adopted
on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-116-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Lisbon Road, 2686, (Ward 5) – CWC Industries, Inc., owner – appeal postponed to 8/29/01
on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-77-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
Oakview Avenue, 11703, (Ward 9) – Lewis G. Robinson, owner – appeal resolved on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-78-01) . . . . . . . . 2038
Old River Road, 1059, (a.k.a. 1057-59 Old River Road), (Ward 13) – George Khouri Familty
Ltd. Partnership / Dan Bliss (PDU, Inc., d.b.a. Heaven and Earth, a.k.a. Peabody’s
- appeal adopted on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-44-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Old River Road, 1064, (a.k.a. 1064-66 Old River Road), (Ward 13) – 1078 Old River Road,
Ltd. / Isabella Basile, a.k.a. Chesler (The Beach Club) – appeal adopted on 8/15/01
(Doc. A-42-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Old River Road, 1078, (a.k.a. 1068-78 Old River Road), (Ward 13) – 1078 Old River Road,
Ltd. / Isabella Basile, a.k.a. Chesler (The Basement) – appeal adopted on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-43-01) . . . . . . . . . 2039
Payne Avenue, 4650, (Ward 7) – Anis Daher, owner – appeal withdrawn on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-76-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
Prospect Avenue, 3100, (Ward 7) – Drew Smith, owner – appeal adopted on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-121-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
St. Clair Avenue, 2532, (Ward 13) – Dave Hunsinker, owner – appeal adopted on
8/15/01 (Doc. A-120-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
St. Clair Avenue, 7901, (Ward 8) – Jimmie L. Richard, owner – appeal amended and adopted
on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-112-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Superior Avenue, 6602, (Ward 7) – Demetrious D. Davis, owner – no action on 8/15/01
(Doc. A-125-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
West 39th Street, 3835, (Ward 15) – Bank of Yorba Linda, mortgagee – appeal resolved on
8/15/01 (Doc. A-93-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
West 6th Street, 1212, (Ward 13) – Terry Barbu, owner – appeal adopted on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-119-01) . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
West 9th Street, 1281, (Ward 13) – West Ninth Street Partners, owner – appeal resolved
on 8/15/01 (Doc. A-88-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038

2132

August 22, 2001

The City Record

197

Board of Control – City Hall
Elevator maintenance at City Hall – pursuant to Ord. 297-01 – all bids rejected – Division of
Property Management, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 553-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Aviation communications equipment – contract pursuant to Ord. 642-01 to Vidette
Communications, d.b.a. Western Reserve Communications – Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 546-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
Redundant electric source construction – approve subcontractors – pursuant to BOC Res.
443-01 – Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 545-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
Rental Car Facility – amend Contract #52456 per BOC Res. 800-97 with Dollar Rent A Car
Systems, Inc. – sublease to Avis Rent A Car Systems, Inc. – Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Board of Control – Cleveland Public Power Division
Lighting, decorative and special, maintenance of – contract pursuant to Ord. 830-2000 to
Lake Erie Electric, Inc. – Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Vehicle (motor) parts and service – contract pursuant to Ord. 544-01 to West Park Auto
Parts – Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Board of Control – Community Development Department
Massie Avenue, 10817 (Ward 8) – PPN 109-15-131 – to Robert Grant, Sr. (BOC Res. 554-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
Board of Control – Concession Agreement
Food and beverage concession at Convention Center – assignment of Contract #57921 per BOC
Res. 35-01 and 66-01 from Executive Caterers, Inc. to Executive Caterers
at Landerhaven, Inc. – Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 552-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Convention Center and Stadium Division
Food and beverage concession at Convention Center – assignment of Contract #57921 per BOC
Res. 35-01 and 66-01 from Executive Caterers, Inc. to Executive Caterers
at Landerhaven, Inc. – Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 552-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Engineering and Construction Division
Central Avenue rehabilitation from E. 22nd St. to E. 55th St., engineering services
- contract pursuant to Ord. 1032-01 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. – Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 547-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
East 79th Street rehabilitation from St. Clair Ave. to Chester Ave., engineering services
- contract pursuant to Ord. 1032-01 to Finkbeiner, Pettis & Stout – Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
West 110th Street rehabilitation from Western Ave. to Berea Rd. – contract pursuant to
Ord. 835-2000 to Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. – Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Finance Department
Chassis (stripped) with step van body / pipe repair truck – contract pursuant
to Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 to Wise International Trucks of Ohio – Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Crew cab chassis with utility service body / pipe repair truck – pursuant to Ord.
1685-2000 and 99-01 – bids rejected – Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Jacobsen mower parts – pursuant to Ord. 489-01 – all bids rejected – Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 539-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Board of Control – Land Reutilization Program
Massie Avenue, 10817 (Ward 8) – PPN 109-15-131 – to Robert Grant, Sr. (BOC Res. 554-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
Board of Control – Land Reutilization Program (Ward 8)
Massie Avenue, 10817 (Ward 8) – PPN 109-15-131 – to Robert Grant, Sr. (BOC Res. 554-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037

2133

The City Record

198

August 22, 2001

Board of Control – Leases
Rental Car Facility – amend Contract #52456 per BOC Res. 800-97 with Dollar Rent A Car
Systems, Inc. – sublease to Avis Rent A Car Systems, Inc. – Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Board of Control – Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cab / chassis, 6 x 6 with dump body and plow – assignment of Contract #55855 per BOC Res.
811-99 from Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Volvo Trucks to Associates
Commercial Corporation – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 549-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Cab / chassis, 6 x 6 with dump body and plow – assignment of Contract #55855 per BOC Res.
811-99 from Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Volvo Trucks to Aber’s Truck
Center – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 550-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Elevator maintenance at City Hall – pursuant to Ord. 297-01 – all bids rejected Division of Property Management, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 553-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Food and beverage concession at Convention Center – assignment of Contract #57921 per BOC
Res. 35-01 and 66-01 from Executive Caterers, Inc. to Executive Caterers
at Landerhaven, Inc. – Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 552-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Port Control Department
Aviation communications equipment – contract pursuant to Ord. 642-01 to Vidette
Communications, d.b.a. Western Reserve Communications – Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 546-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
Redundant electric source construction – approve subcontractors – pursuant to BOC Res.
443-01 – Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 545-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
Rental Car Facility – amend Contract #52456 per BOC Res. 800-97 with Dollar Rent A Car
Systems, Inc. – sublease to Avis Rent A Car Systems, Inc. – Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Board of Control – Professional Service Contracts
Central Avenue rehabilitation from E. 22nd St. to E. 55th St., engineering services
- contract pursuant to Ord. 1032-01 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. – Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 547-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
East 79th Street rehabilitation from St. Clair Ave. to Chester Ave., engineering services
- contract pursuant to Ord. 1032-01 to Finkbeiner, Pettis & Stout – Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
Board of Control – Property Management Division
Elevator maintenance at City Hall – pursuant to Ord. 297-01 – all bids rejected Division of Property Management, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 553-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Public Improvement Contracts
Redundant electric source construction – approve subcontractors – pursuant to BOC Res.
443-01 – Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 545-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
West 110th Street rehabilitation from Western Ave. to Berea Rd. – contract pursuant to
Ord. 835-2000 to Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. – Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Public Service Department
Cab / chassis, 6 x 6 with dump body and plow – assignment of Contract #55855 per BOC Res.
811-99 from Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Volvo Trucks to Associates
Commercial Corporation – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 549-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Cab / chassis, 6 x 6 with dump body and plow – assignment of Contract #55855 per BOC Res.
811-99 from Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Volvo Trucks to Aber’s Truck
Center – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 550-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036

2134

August 22, 2001

The City Record

199

Central Avenue rehabilitation from E. 22nd St. to E. 55th St., engineering services
– contract pursuant to Ord. 1032-01 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. – Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 547-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
East 79th Street rehabilitation from St. Clair Ave. to Chester Ave., engineering services
– contract pursuant to Ord. 1032-01 to Finkbeiner, Pettis & Stout – Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035
West 110th Street rehabilitation from Western Ave. to Berea Rd. – contract pursuant to
Ord. 835-2000 to Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. – Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Board of Control – Public Utilities Department
Lighting, decorative and special, maintenance of – contract pursuant to Ord. 830-2000 to
Lake Erie Electric, Inc. – Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Vehicle (motor) parts and service – contract pursuant to Ord. 544-01 to West Park Auto
Parts – Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Board of Control – Requirement Contracts
Aviation communications equipment – contract pursuant to Ord. 642-01 to Vidette
Communications, d.b.a. Western Reserve Communications – Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 546-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab / chassis, 6 x 6 with dump body and plow – assignment of Contract #55855 per BOC Res.
811-99 from Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Volvo Trucks to Associates
Commercial Corporation – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 549-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab / chassis, 6 x 6 with dump body and plow – assignment of Contract #55855 per BOC Res.
811-99 from Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Volvo Trucks to Aber’s Truck
Center – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 550-01)
Chassis (stripped) with step van body / pipe repair truck – contract pursuant
to Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 to Wise International Trucks of Ohio – Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lighting, decorative and special, maintenance of – contract pursuant to Ord. 830-2000 to
Lake Erie Electric, Inc. – Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicle (motor) parts and service – contract pursuant to Ord. 544-01 to West Park Auto
Parts – Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 542-01) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2035

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034

Board of Zoning Appeals – Report
Bellaire Road, 13011, (Ward 20) – Robert Madden, owner, d.b.a. K & M Towing & Automotive
- appeal heard on 8/20/01 (Cal. 01-147) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 9503, (Ward 18) – Zorka Miskovic, owner – appeal granted and adopted on
8/20/01 (Cal. 01-166) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 1900, (Ward 5) – Euclid Building Company LLC, owners c/o
Sandvick Architects, agent – appeal heard on 08/20/01 (Cal. 01-209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 4427, (Ward 14) – St. Paul’s Community Church, owner c/o
Reverend James Link – appeal heard on 08/20/01 (Cal. 01-173) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Laverne Avenue, 17002, (Ward 21) – Rodney and Susan Torres, owners – appeal heard
on 08/20/01 (Cal. 01-172) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 13530, (Ward 2) – Marvin Butler, owner – appeal withdrawn on 8/20/01
(Cal. 01-144) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 5021, (Ward 16) – Don Petruzzi, owner d.b.a. Don’s Chevrolet – appeal reheard
on 8/20/01 (Cal. 01-153) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saratoga Avenue, 2713, (Ward 16) – Mark Degan, owner – appeal heard on 08/20/01
(Cal. 01-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street, 3375, (Ward 19) – George Bodkin, owner – appeal heard on 08/20/01
(Cal. 01-176) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 148th Street, 4601, (Ward 20) – Johnny Millsaps, owner – appeal heard on 08/20/01
(Cal. 01-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 3153, (Ward 13) – Scott Rosenstein, owner – appeal granted and adopted
on 8/20/01 (Cal. 01-165) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 174th Street, 4550, (Ward 20) – Ronald Smee, owner – appeal granted and adopted on
8/20/01 (Cal. 01-149) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd Street, 1400, (Ward 13) – David Kirschenbaum, owner – appeal heard on 08/20/01
(Cal. 01-189) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 59th Place, 3332, (Ward 17) – Cedina Straka, owner – appeal heard on 08/20/01
(Cal. 01-175) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 86th Street, 3235, (Ward 18) – Mario Martinez, owner – appeal heard on 08/20/01
(Cal. 01-174) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2135

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037

The City Record

200

August 22, 2001

Bonds
Bond expenses, services and legal opinions — amend Code Section 177.10 — Mayor’s Letter
— vetoing Ordinance No. 922-01 (F 922-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1939
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds — issuance (O 168--A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2064
Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Cleveland
Grant agreement — Community Development Dept. (O 1348-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Bridges
Schaaf Road (CR-97) Bridge — replace — County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds — Public
Service Dept. (O 1489-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943
Building and Housing Division
Landmarks — Regulation of Environmental Changes; Certificate of Appropriateness – amend
Code Section 161.05 (O 1486-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1942
Burke Lakefront Airport
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport — Port Control Dept. (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945
City of Cleveland Bids
Ammunition – Department of Public Safety – Division of Police – per C.O. Sec. 135.065 bid due August 31, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Anti-freeze – Department of Public Service – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance – per
Ord. 381-01 – bid due September 13, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Autosampler – Department of Public Safety – Division of Police – per Ord. 1656-99 – bid
due September 6, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Bricks, used – Department of Finance – per Ord. 745-01 – bid due September 12,
2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Cab / chassis with ambulance module – Department of Public Safety – Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance – per Ord. 1264-01 – bid due September
5, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Cab / chassis with flat bed dump body – Department of Public Service – Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance – per Ord. 1264-01 – bid due August 31, 2001
(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Cab / chassis with snow blower removal equipment – Department of Public Service Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance – per Ord. 1264-01 – bid due September
14, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Clay, ball diamond – Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties – Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties – per Ord. 547-01 – bid due September 7, 2001(advertised
8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Computers – Department of Public Service – per Ord. 1198-2000 – bid due September
14, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Crane carrier – Department of Public Service – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance per Ord. 363-01 – bid due September 12, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
De-icing agents – Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties – Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties – per Ord. 548-01 – bid due September 7, 2001
(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Diesel fuel – Department of Public Service – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance – per
Ord. 2023-2000 – bid due September 14, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Express mail service – Department of Finance – per Ord. 1059-01 – bid due September 13,
2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Exterminating services – Department of Finance – per Ord. 620-01 – bid due August
29, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
FAA Tracon Renovation project – Department of Port Control – bid due September 21,
2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Fencing, repair / replacement – Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties – Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties – per Ord. 545-01 – bid due September 13,
2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Flight Guide, design, layout, printing and distribution of – Department of Port Control
- per Ord. 1336-01 – bid due September 7, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Furniture – Department of Public Safety – Division of Fire – per Ord. 1005-2000 – bid due
September 13, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2041
Gas chromatograph / mass spectrometer (GC/MS) – Department of Public Safety – Division
of Police – per Ord. 1656-99 – bid due August 30, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Halloran Park aquatic playground and site improvements – Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties – Division of Research, Planning and Development – per Ord. 79-01 and
1077-01 – bid due September 5, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Harvard Yards Service Facility roof replacement / renovation – Department of Public
Service – Division of Architecture – bid due August 30, 2001
(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040

2136

August 22, 2001

The City Record

201

High voltage switching equipment – Department of Public Utilities – per C.O. Sec. 129.26
– bid due September 20, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hoist, roll-off – Department of Public Service – Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
– per Ord. 1264-01 – bid due September 6, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jacobsen mower parts – Department of Finance – per Ord. 489-01 – bid due August 29,
2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lamps – Department of Finance – per Ord. 1062-01 – bid due September 7,
2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lumber and supplies – Department of Finance – per Ord. 491-01 – bid due August 29,
2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment processor envelope extractor machine – Department of Public Utilities – Division
of Utilities Fiscal Control – per Ord. 1049-01 – bid due September
14, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reproduction and mounting – Department of Finance – per Ord. 655-01 – bid due September
12, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sodium hypochlorite solution – Department of Public Utilities – Division of Water – per
C.O. Sec. 129.24 – bid due August 31, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supplies – Department of Public Service – Division of Streets – per Ord. 1263-01 – bid
due September 5, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tools, hand held – Department of Finance – per Ord. 743-01 – bid due September 7,
2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, lift (8,000 lb. and 12,000 lb.) – Department of Public Service – Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance – per Ord. 1264-01 – bid due September
7, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban forest property maintenance – Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
– Division of Park Maintenance and Properties – per Ord. 300-01 – bid due September
6, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicle, aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) – Department of Public Safety – Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance – per Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 – bid due September 5,
2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicle exhaust ventilation system for CPP East Side Service Center – Department of
Public Utilities – Division of Cleveland Public Power – per Ord. 843-01 – bid due
September 6, 2001(advertised 8/22/2001 and 8/29/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water pump, 6” trailer-mounted – Department of Public Service – Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance – per Ord. 1264-01 – bid due September 6, 2001(advertised 8/15/2001 and 8/22/2001) .

. . . . . . . . . 2041
. . . . . . . . . 2040
. . . . . . . . . 2040
. . . . . . . . . 2041
. . . . . . . . . 2040

. . . . . . . . . 2041
. . . . . . . . . 2041
. . . . . . . . . 2040
. . . . . . . . . 2040
. . . . . . . . . 2041

. . . . . . . . . 2040

. . . . . . . . . 2040

. . . . . . . . . 2040

. . . . . . . . . 2040
. . . . . . . . . 2040

City Council
Brothers Printing Company — business cards and note pads – contract (O 1563-01) .
Business cards and note pads — contract (R 1635-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Letter Service — Ward mailing services – contract (O 1564-01) . . . . . . . . . .
Legal News Publishing Company — printing services for Ward mailings —
contract (O 1565-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislative Service Division — create new Division – new Code Section (O 1484-01)
Letterhead and envelopes — contract (R 1639-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orange Blossom Press — expedited printing services — contract (O 1566-01) . . . . . . .
Orange Blossom Press — letterhead and envelopes — contract (O 1567-01) . . . . . . . . .
Printing services — contract (R 1637-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Printing services, expedited — contract (R 1638-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward mailing services — contract (R 1636-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1999-2127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2021-2058
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1999-2127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1999-2127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2022-2059
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1999-2127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2022-2059
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2022-2059
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2022-2059

City Employees
Medical, Life & Vision Insurance — contracts — Personnel Dept. (O 1534-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1964-2093
City Planning Commission
Ameritech – Old Grayton Road easement – amend Sections 1, 2, 4 and 5/O.1961-2000 (O 1511-01) . . . . . . 1956-2086
Catholic Charities Facilities Corp. — plat — Public Service Dept. (F 1441-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Community Reinvestment Area — Amend Sections 1 & 2/O.1776-A-90 and repeal O.1089-01 —
Community Development Dept. (O 1341-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
KINBESS, LLC. — project agreement — Hemisphere Community Development Plan Area —
Economic Development Dept. (O 1501-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
Kinsman Ave./E. 80th St./E. 82nd St. Community Development Plan — Community Development
Dept. (O 1494-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1946
Neighborhood Master Plan — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 6) (O 1515-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2087
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Burke Lakefront Airport — Port
Control Dept. (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945
Radiant Aviation Services — Infrared aircraft deicing facility — lease — Port Control
Dept. (O 1221-A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1956-2077
Cleveland Housing Network
Block Grant loan – housing rehabilitation & construction — Community Development Dept.
(O 1347-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082

2137

The City Record

202

August 22, 2001

Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority
Scientific Examiner — Public Safety (O 1504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1953
Cleveland Public Power
Motor vehicle fleet — repair (O 1046-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Cleveland Public Schools
After School Community Outreach Program — agreement — EBC Fery Development Corp.
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 10) (O 1529-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
Kenneth W. Clement School — classroom furniture — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 10)
Community Development Dept. (O 1340-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Codified Ordinances
Bond expenses, services and legal opinions — amend Code Section 177.10 — Mayor’s Letter
— vetoing Ordinance No. 922-01 (F 922-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1939
Escrow agents, disbursal of funds — amend Code Section 367.13 (O 1528-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
Landmarks — Regulation of Environmental Changes; Certificate of Appropriateness – amend
Code Section 161.05 (O 1486-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1942
Legislative Service Division for Cleveland City Council – create new Division – new Code
Section (O 1484-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Safety forces memorials, vandalism of — new Code Section 623.091 — Safety Dept.
(O 1569-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Vehicles, prohibiting parking on vacant lots – supplement Code Section 451.241 —
Community Development Dept. (O 1491-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
Ward Boundaries — Wards 13 and 14 — amend Code Sections 103.13 and
103.14 (O 1570-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Water rates — regular and special, homestead and direct service — amend Code Sections
535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 (O 1551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1975-2103
Weapons, possessing certain at or about public places — amend Code Section 627-10
(O 1361-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Collective Bargaining Agreements
AFSCME, Ohio Council 8, Local 100 (O 1558-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical Workers, International Brotherhood of, Local 39 (O 1556-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Association of Machinists Districts Council 54, Local 439 (O 1559-01) .
Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union ( Non-Supervisory), Local 1099 (O 1561-01) . .
Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union (Supervisory), Local 1099 (O 1560-01) . . . . . . .
Service Hospital Nursing Home & Public Employees (Custodial Workers & Bridge
Local 47 (O 1557-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
Boilers),
.........

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1980-2108
1979-2107
1980-2108
1980-2108
1980-2108

. . . . . . . 1979-2108

Collinwood Community Services Center
Elderly services program — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 10) Community
Development Dept. (O 1339-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Communications
Advanced Roofing Systems Inc. — Water Pollution Control Div. — Utilities
Dept. (F 1447-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Bond expenses, services and legal opinions — amend Code Section 177.10 — Mayor’s Letter
— vetoing Ordinance No. 922-01 (F 922-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1939
Catholic Charities Facilities Corp. — plat — Public Service Dept. — City Planning
Commission (F 1441-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
De-Ko, Inc. — rehabilitate chlorine handling systems — Utilities Dept.
(F 1449-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund — deposit — Safety Dept. (F 1437-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund — deposit — Safety Dept. (F 1438-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Gillinov, Linda J. — property appraisal — Law Dept. (F 1439-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
M-A Building & Maintenance Company — Tremont Health Center — Health
Dept. (F 1446-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
MetroHealth Medical Center — First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407 — Mayor’s
Letter — vetoing Ordinance No. 1385-01 (F 1385-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Molina, Francisco — Regional Transit Authority – Oath of Office (F 1444-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
R. & H. Realty Company — property appraisal — Law Dept. (F 1440-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Ruzic, Mark — Regional Transit Authority – Oath of Office (F 1443-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Utilicon Corporation — sewer cleaning and lining — Utilities Dept. (F 1448-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Wiggins Interiors — interior improvements to various Cleveland health centers — Health
Dept. (F 1445-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Williams, James — Board of Building Standards – Oath of Office (F 1442-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940

2138

August 22, 2001

The City Record

203

Community Development
A Cultural Exchange — The Read, Baby, Read Book Club — agreement – Neighborhood Equity
Funds (Ward 19) (O 1337-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2082
After School Community Outreach Program — agreement — EBC Fery Development Corp.
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 10) (O 1529-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
Afterschool Music Program — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (Ward 6) (O 1513-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Architectural Feasibility Study — Slavic Village Development Corp. — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (Ward 12) (O 1573-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Boys and Girls Clubs of Cleveland — grant agreement (O 1348-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Bradley Construction Company Headquarters and Hardware Store — construction
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 8) (O 1553-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Bridge Square Housing Project — Phase II — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org.
(Ward 17) Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 903-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
Cleveland Housing Network – Block Grant loan — housing rehabilitation &
construction (O 1347-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Collinwood Community Services Center — elderly services program — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (Ward 10) (O 1339-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Community Reinvestment Area — Amend Sections 1 & 2/O.1776-A-90 and repeal O.1089-01 —
City Planning Commission (O 1341-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Cudell Community Planning & Assessment Process — Neighborhood Progress Inc. — agreement
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 18) (O 1574-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Dove Park Panthers Youth Association — Muny Football Program (Ward 2) Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1166-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Downtown Single Room Occupancy (SRO) — 1850 Superior Ave. — Famicos Foundation (Ward
13) Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 891-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
E. 59th & E. 57th Streets — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc — Land Reutilization
Program (Ward 5) (O 1535-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1965-2093
E. 82nd St., 1417 — to Roosevelt & Elizabeth Pendleton — Land Reutilization
Program (Ward 7) (O 1548-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1973-2101
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. — Safety Education and Yard Light Program —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 6) (O 1485-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Famicos Foundation Inc. — various parcels — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7) (O 1547-01) . . . . . 1968-2097
Fifty-Fifty Home Repair Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corp. — Ward
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 928-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Fuller Avenue — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — PPN 127-17-003 & 004 — Land
Reutilization Program (O 1493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945
Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame — agreement — Glenville Development Corporation —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 8) (O 1555-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Harvard School Senior Apartments project — amend O.1083-2000 (Ward 12) Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1240-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) (O 1522-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Kamm’s Corners Community Development Corp. — amend Contract No. 56705 (O 1350-01) . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Kenneth W. Clement School — classroom furniture — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 10)
(O 1340-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Kinsman Ave./E. 80th St./E. 82nd St. Community Development Plan — City
Planning Commission (O 1494-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1946
Lutheran Housing Corp. — Home Repair Program (Ward 2) Neighborhood Equity Fund
(O 935-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Madison Avenue, 9901— to Trinity Methodist Church of God — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1509-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1955
Memphis Ave., 4214 — renovation — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. — Ward 16
Neighborhood Equity Funds. (O 915-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.113-2000 (O 1235-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1135-2000 (O 1230-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1137-2000 (O 1237-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1715-99 (O 1213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.606-2000 (O 1227-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — two elevators (Ward 3) Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1164-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Northeast Shores Development Corp. — 15510 Huntmere Ave. renovation (Ward 11)
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 924-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2072
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corp. — 12001 Ashbury Ave. — renovation (Ward 9)
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 934-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Notre Dame Community Homes, Ltd. — various parcels — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1502-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1949
Otis Associates Limited Partnership — modifications — Loan Agreement No.
53646 (O 1231-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Phoenix Development Project — agreement — Tremont West Development Corp. —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 13) (O 1521-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Reddlo Development — agreement — Glenville Development Corp. — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (Ward 8) (O 1554-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Shelton Drive, 19520 — to David G. Swintek — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1503-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1953
South Boulevard, 10004-06 — sell — Glenville Development Corporation (O 1125-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2064
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Corporation – Neighborhood Safety Video
Monitoring System (Ward 13) Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1132-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2074

2139

The City Record

204

August 22, 2001

Superior Ave. 1900; Tower Press Building — contract — St. Vincent Quadrangle, Inc. —
amend Section 2/O.863-2000 (O 1512-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Tremont West Development Corporation — HOPE VI — amend O.809-01 (Ward 13) Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1216-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Union Avenue — to Slavic Village Development Corp. — Land Reutilization Program (O 1505-01) . . . . . . . . . . 1953
Vehicles, prohibiting parking on vacant lots – supplement Code Section 451.241 (O 1491-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
W.E.B. DuBois Community Center — first amendment to Contract No. 56549 (O 1349-01) . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Water Tower Project, 2001— grant — State of Ohio — contract — FAMICOS Foundation —
power wash eligible homes (O 1542-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2095
Westside Industrial Retention & Expansion Network for Industrial Retention and
Public Safety Programs – agreement – Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 18) (O 1654-01). . . . . . . . 2004-2131
Community Development Block Grant Program
Block Grant loan – housing rehabilitation & construction – Community Development Dept.
(O 1347-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Community Reinvestment Area
Amend Sections 1 & 2/O.1776-A-90 and repeal O.1089-01 — City Planning Commission
— Community Development Dept. (O 1341-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Condolences
Berry, Sr., Daniel L. (R 1465-01). . . . . . . .
Burks, Walter A. (R 1466-01). . . . . . . . . . .
Cannon, Bessie Belle Jones (R 1457-01) .
Cansler, Helen Wright (R 1456-01) . . . . .
Coats, W.C. (R 1462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flewellen, Icabod (R 1468-01) . . . . . . . . . .
Gibbs, Eria (R 1463-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hunter, Ocie (R 1458-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liley, Louise (R 1460-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe, George L. (R 1461-01) . . . . . . . . .
Sokolowski, Marion (R 1464-01) . . . . . . . .
Taylor, Callie Mae (R 1467-01) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941

Adrine, Judge Ronald B. (R 1477-01) . . . . . . . . .
Bowie & Smith Family Reunion (R 1471-01) . .
Cotton, Catherine & Archie (R 1478-01) . . . . . . .
Harris, William (R 1469-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Pearl (R 1474-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oackley, Charles (R 1470-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sharpe Family Reunion (R 1479-01) . . . . . . . . . .
St. Augustine Church (R 1476-01). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terrell, Bonnie Jean (R 1472-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Towards Employment (R 1475-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Claudia (R 1459-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams-Morrow Family Reunion (R 1473-01) .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941
. 1941

Congratulations

Contracts
Kamm’s Corners Community Development Corp. — amend Contract No. 56705 — Community
Development Dept. (O 1350-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
MetroHealth Medical Center — First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407 — Mayor’s
Letter — vetoing Ordinance No. 1385-01 (F 1385-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Otis Associates Limited Partnership — modifications — Loan Agreement No.
53646 (O 1231-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
W.E.B. DuBois Community Center — first amendment to Contract No. 56549 — Community
Development Dept. (O 1349-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Cudell Improvement
Cudell Community Planning & Assessment Process — Neighborhood Progress Inc. — agreement
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 18) Community Development Dept. (O 1574-01) . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Cuyahoga County
Schaaf Road (CR-97) Bridge — replace — County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds — Public
Service Dept. (O 1489-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943

2140

August 22, 2001

The City Record

205

Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners
Pleasant Valley Road — sell to and grant temporary easement — Utilities Dept.
(O 1550-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1974-2102
Dominion East Ohio
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company – objection to closing payment station (R 1640-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2023-2059
Easements
Ameritech — Old Grayton Road easement — amend Sections 1, 2, 4 and 5/O.1961-2000
(O 1511-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1956-2086
East Side Market Project
West Side and East Side Markets Milennium Project — alter and modify Contract No. 56521
— Envirocom Construction, Inc. — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept.
(O 1507-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1954
West Side and East Side Markets Millennium Project — alter and modify Contract No. 56436
— RW Clark Company — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. (O 1506-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1954
Economic Development Department
KINBESS, LLC. — project agreement — Hemisphere Community Development Plan Area —
Economic Development Dept. (O 1501-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — contract — financial assistance – retain LTV Steel and its
employees (O 1544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — ten tax year abatement
(O 1543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds — issuance (O 168A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2064
Emergency Medical Service Division
Emergency Medical Services Grant, 2000-2001 — amend Title & Section 1 of O.1427-00
(O 1360-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Employees
Recovery Resources — Employee Assistance Program — Personnel Dept. (O 1549-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1973-2102
Enterprise Zone Agreement
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — ten tax year abatement — Economic Development Dept.
(O 1543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096
Famicos Foundation
Land Reutilization Program — various parcels (Ward 7) Community Development Dept.
(O 1547-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1968-2097
Water Tower Project, 2001— grant — State of Ohio — contract — power wash
eligible homes — Community Development Dept. (O 1542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2095
Finance Department
Bond expenses, services and legal opinions — amend Code Section 177.10 — Mayor’s Letter
— vetoing Ordinance No. 922-01 (F 922-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1939
Cleveland Municipal Court — grant — Office of Criminal Justice Services —
Domestic Violence Program (O 1352-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Escrow agents, disbursal of funds — amend Code Section 367.13 (O 1528-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
General Fund — Capital Sidewalk Improvements Fund — deposit funds — Ward Capital
Improvement Fund (O 1572-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2130
General Fund — deposit funds to Neighborhood Equity Fund — Ward Capital
Improvement Fund (O 1571-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002-2130
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — contract — financial assistance — retain LTV Steel and its
employees — Economic Development Dept. (O 1544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096
Municipal Court — Office of Criminal Justice Services — grant — Project HOPE Program
(O 1353-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2084
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs — 2001- 2002 school year
(O 850-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2071
W.E.B. DuBois Community Center — first amendment to Contract No. 56549 — Community
Development Dept. (O 1349-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083

2141

The City Record

206

August 22, 2001

Fire Division
Fire safety boat — fully staff and operate — (O 213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Safety forces memorials, vandalism of — new Code Section 623.091 (O 1569-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Funds
General Fund — deposit funds to Neighborhood Equity
Improvement Fund — Finance Dept. (O 1571-01). . .
General Fund — Capital Sidewalk Improvements Fund
Improvement Fund — Finance Dept. (O 1572-01) . . .

Fund — Ward Capital
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002-2130
— deposit funds — Ward Capital
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2130

General Fund
Capital Sidewalk Improvements Fund — deposit funds — Ward Capital Improvement Fund —
Finance Dept. (O 1572-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2130
Ward Capital Improvement Fund — deposit funds to Neighborhood Equity Fund —
Finance Dept. (O 1571-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002-2130
Glenville Development Corporation
Bradley Construction Company Headquarters and Hardware Store — construction
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 8) Community Development Dept. (O 1553-01) . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 8)
(O 1555-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Reddlo Development — agreement — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 8) (O 1554-01) . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Grants
Bisbee Playground — rehabilitation — 2001 Urban Parks and Recreation Recovery Program
(O 1079-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2074
Caribbean Gang Task Force Program, 2002 — Justice Department — Public Safety Dept.
(O 1356-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2084
Cleveland Team Approach to Violence Against Women Program — Justice Department — Public
Safety Dept. (O 1357-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2084
COPS In Schools Program — Justice Department — Public Safety Dept. (O 1358-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Domestic Violence Program — Cleveland Municipal Court — Office of Criminal Justice
Services (O 1352-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Emergency Medical Services Grant, 2000-2001 — amend Title & Section 1 of O.1427-00
(O 1360-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Project HOPE Program – Cleveland Municipal Court — Office of Criminal Justice Services
(O 1353-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2084
Recycle Ohio! Program, 2002 — Ohio Department of Natural Resources — Public
Service (O 1490-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
Round 8 NatureWorks Program — Department of Natural Resources (O 1075-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
STEP 2002 Program — Ohio Public Safety Department (O 1359-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Water Tower Project, 2001 — State of Ohio — contract — FAMICOS Foundation
— power wash eligible homes — Community Development Dept. (O 1542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2095
Health Department
AIDS Prevention Grant, 2001 Federal — contract — Cleveland Treatment Center
— terminate Contract No. 57325 — Xchange Point (O 1500-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
Central Avenue Remediation — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 6) (O 1516-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2087
HIV/AIDS related services — contracts (O 1498-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
Infant Mortality Reduction Initiative Project, 2001-2002 — grant from Ohio Department
of Health — contract with Lutheran Metropolitan Ministry Assoc. (O 1495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1947
Lead detectors, two portable — Division of Environment (O 1496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1947
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control Program, 2001-2003 — amend Contract Nos. 57916, 57917,
57919, 57899, 57953 and 57954 (O 1497-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1947
M-A Building & Maintenance Company — Tremont Health Center (F 1446-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
MetroHealth Medical Center — First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407
(O 1533-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1964-2093
MetroHealth Medical Center — First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407 — Mayor’s
Letter — vetoing Ordinance No. 1385-01 (F 1385-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Residential environmental assessment, lead — Medicaid-eligible children — Division of
Environment (O 1499-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
Wiggins Interiors — interior improvements to various Cleveland health centers
(F 1445-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Hermes Race Systems
Jake to the Rock — permit (Ward 13) (O 1519-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Race for the Cure, 8th Annual NE Ohio – permit (Ward 8) (O 1575-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Turkey Trot Race — permit (Ward 13) (O 1518-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2088

2142

August 22, 2001

The City Record

207

HIV/AIDS
AIDS Prevention Grant, 2001 Federal — contract — Cleveland Treatment Center
— terminate Contract No. 57325 — Xchange Point — Health Dept. (O 1500-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) Community Development Dept.
(O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
HIV/AIDS related services — contracts — Public Health Dept. (O 1498-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948
Insurance
Medical, Life & Vision Insurance — contracts — City employees — Personnel Dept.
(O 1534-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1964-2093
Kamms Corners Community Development Corporation
Amend Contract No. 56705 — Community Development Dept. (O 1350-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Land Reutilization Program
E. 59th & E. 57th Streets — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc (Ward
5) (O 1535-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1965-2093
E. 82nd St., 1417 — to Roosevelt & Elizabeth Pendleton (Ward 7) Community Development
Dept. (O 1548-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1973-2101
Famicos Foundation Inc. — various parcels (Ward 7) Community Development Dept.
(O 1547-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1968-2097
Fuller Avenue — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — PPN 127-17-003 & 004 —
Community Development Dept. (O 1493-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945
Madison Avenue, 9901— to Trinity Methodist Church of God (O 1509-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1955
Notre Dame Community Homes, Ltd. — various parcels — Community Development Dept.
(O 1502-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1949
Shelton Drive, 19520 — to David G. Swintek — Community Development Dept.
(O 1503-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1953
Union Avenue — to Slavic Village Development Corp. (O 1505-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1953
Landmark Commission
Landmarks — Regulation of Environmental Changes; Certificate of Appropriateness – amend
Code Section 161.05 (O 1486-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1942
Law Department
Gillinov, Linda J. — property appraisal (F 1439-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Safety forces memorials, vandalism of — new Code Section 623.091 — Safety Dept.
(O 1569-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
R. & H. Realty Company — property appraisal (F 1440-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Lead Paint
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control Program, 2001-2003 — amend Contract
57919, 57899, 57953 and 57954 — Public Health Dept. (O 1497-01) . . . .
Residential environmental assessment, lead — Medicaid-eligible children
Environment — Health Dept. (O 1499-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Nos. 57916, 57917,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1947
— Division of
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948

Lease Agreement
YMCA, Broadway Ave. — youth basketball program — amend Lease Agreement No. 35620
— Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. (O 1510-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1955
Leases
Radiant Energy Services — aircraft deicing facility (O 1221-A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1956-2077
Liquor Permits
Archwood, 3912 — renewal — withdraw objection (Ward 15) (R 1606-01)
Ashbury Ave., 10509 — renewal — objection (Ward 9) (R 1652-01). . . . . . .
Bellair Rd., 12208 — renewal — objection (Ward 19) (R 1576-01) . . . . . . . .
Broadview Rd., 2139 – renewal – objection (Ward 15) (R 1604-01) . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave., 7663 — renewal — objection (Ward 12) (R 1646-01) . . . . .
Cedar Ave., 10812 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1581-01) . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Avenue, 8301 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1578-01) . . . . . . .

2143

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

2013-2050
2026-2063
2004-2041
2012-2050
2025-2061
2005-2043
2004-2042

The City Record

208

August 22, 2001

Cedar Avenue, 8302 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1579-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005-2042
Cedar Avenue, 8624 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1580-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005-2043
Cedar Road, 8214 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1577-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004-2042
Chester Avenue, 9308 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1582-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006-2043
Coit Road, 14643 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1593-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2046
Denison Ave., 3829 — renewal — objection (Ward 15) (R 1605-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2050
Detroit Ave., 4204 — transfer ownership (Ward 14) (F 1451-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Detroit Ave., 5910 — renewal — objection (Ward 17) (R 1617-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
E. 105th St. — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1584-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006-2044
E. 105th St., 1250 — renewal — objection (Ward 8) (R 1621-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2017-2054
E. 105th St., 2249 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1585-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2044
E. 131st St., 3616 — renewal — objection (Ward 3) (R 1641-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2023-2060
E. 131st St., 3695-97 — transfer ownership (Ward 2) (F 1452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
E. 131st St., 3976 — renewal — objection (Ward 3) (R 1642-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2023-2060
E. 140th St., 527 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1594-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2047
E. 140th St., 625 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1596-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2010-2047
E. 140th St., 662 — renewal — Objection (Ward 10) (R 1595-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2047
E. 140th St., 831— renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1597-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2010-2047
E. 144th St., 3744 — renewal — objection (Ward 3) (R 1643-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2024-2060
E. 152nd St., 1030 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1598-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2010-2048
E. 156th St., 231 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1625-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2056
E. 156th St., 397 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1626-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2019-2056
E. 185th St., 568 — transfer ownership — withdraw objection (Ward 11) (R 1633-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2021-2058
E. 185th St., 747 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1632-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2021-2058
E. 185th St., 910 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1627-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2019-2056
E. 55th St., 1905 — renewal — objection (Ward 7) (R 1610-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051
E. 65th St., 3071 — renewal — objection (Ward 12) (R 1647-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2025-2061
E. 71st St., 1144 — renewal — objection (Ward 7) (R 1612-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2052
E. 79th St., 1136 — renewal — objection (Ward 7) (R 1611-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051
E. 79th St., 1930 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1583-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006-2043
E. 93rd St., 863-71 — renewal — objection (Ward 8) (R 1620-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2017-2054
Euclid Ave., 18121 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1599-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2011-2048
Euclid Ave., 2083 — transfer ownership & location (Ward 13) (F 1454-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Fleet Ave., 5509 — stock transfer (Ward 13) (F 1455-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Frankfort Avenue, 620 — renewal — objection (Ward 13) (R 1591-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2046
Hough Ave., 7001 — renewal — objection (Ward 7) (R 1613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2052
Hough Ave., 7102 — renewal — objection (Ward 7) (R 1614-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2052
Kinsman Ave., 13401 — renewal — objection (Ward 3) (R 1644-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2024-2061
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — transfer of ownership — objection (Ward 3) (R 1645-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2024-2061
Lakeshore Blvd., 15428 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1628-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2019-2056
Lakeshore Blvd., 17318 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1629-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2020-2057
Lakeshore Blvd., 17910 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1631-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2020-2057
Lakeview Rd., 970 — renewal — objection (Ward 8) (R 1622-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2055
Lee Rd., 4360 — renewal — objection (Ward 1) (R 1608-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2051
Lorain Ave., 10025 — renewal — objection (Ward 18) (R 1649-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2062
Lorain Ave., 7310 — renewal — objection (Ward 17) (R 1618-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
Miles Ave., 13197-201 — renewal — objection (Ward 2) (R 1650-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2062
Mt. Carmel Avenue, 11543-45 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1586-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2044
Parkwood, 974-78 — renewal — objection (Ward 8) (R 1623-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2055
Quincy Avenue, 8329 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1587-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2045
Quincy Avenue, 8502 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1588-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2045
Quincy Avenue, 9209 — renewal — objection (Ward 6) (R 1589-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2045
Rocky River Drive, 4792 — renewal — objection (Ward 20) (R 1648-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2025-2062
Shaw Ave., 12901 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1603-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2012-2049
St. Clair Ave., 12730 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1600-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2011-2048
St. Clair Ave., 13001 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1601-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2011-2049
St. Clair Ave., 14102-06 — renewal — objection (Ward 10) (R 1602-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2012-2049
St. Clair Ave., 15521 — renewal — objection (Ward 11) (R 1630-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2020-2057
St. Clair Ave., 9021 — renewal — objection (Ward 8) (R 1624-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2055
Storer Ave., 6104 — renewal — objection (Ward 17) (R 1619-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2017-2054
Superior Ave., 11625 — renewal — objection (Ward 9) (R 1653-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2063
Superior Ave., 2553 — new application (Ward 13) (F 1450-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Superior Ave., 8802-06 — renewal — objection (Ward 7) (R 1615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2053
Union Ave., 9901-03 — renewal — objection (Ward 5) (R 1607-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2050
W. 9th St., 1281 — transfer ownership & location — withdraw objection (Ward 13) (R 1592-01). . . . . . . 2009-2046
Wade Park Ave., 7038 – transfer ownership (Ward 7) (F 1453-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Warner Road, 4563 — renewal — withdraw objection (Ward 2) (R 1651-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2063
Waterloo Rd., 15601 — renewal — withdraw objection (Ward 11) (R 1634-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2021-2058
LTV Steel Company
Enterprise Zone Agreement — ten tax year abatement — Economic Development Dept.
(O 1543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096
Financial assistance — contract — retain LTV Steel and its employees — Economic
Development Dept. (O 1544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096
Water rates — regular and special, homestead and direct service — amend Code Sections
535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 (O 1551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1975-2103

2144

August 22, 2001

The City Record

209

Lutheran Metropolitan Ministry Association
Infant Mortality Reduction Initiative Project, 2001-2002 — grant from Ohio Department
of Health — contract (O 1495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1947
Metro Health Medical Center
First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407 — Health Dept. (O 1533-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1964-2093
Mayor’s Letter — First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407 — vetoing Ordinance
No. 1385-01 (F 1385-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Municipal Court
Domestic Violence Program — grant — Office of Criminal Justice Services
(O 1352-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Project HOPE Program — Office of Criminal Justice Services — grant (O 1353-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2084
Near West Side Multi-Service Corporation
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards
13, 14, 17, 18) Community Development Dept. (O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund
Superior Ave. 1900; Tower Press Building — contract — St. Vincent Quadrangle, Inc. —
amend Section 2/O.863-2000 — Community Development Dept. (O 1512-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Neighborhood Equity Funds
A Cultural Exchange — The Read, Baby, Read Book Club — agreement (Ward 19)
(O 1337-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2082
After School Community Outreach Program — agreement — EBC Fery Development Corp. (Ward
10) (O 1529-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
Afterschool Music Program — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward
6) (O 1513-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Architectural Feasibility Study — Slavic Village Development Corp. (Ward 12)
(O 1573-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Bradley Construction Company Headquarters and Hardware Store — construction (Ward
8) (O 1553-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Bridge Square housing project — Phase II — Detroit Shoreway Community Dev. Org. (Ward
17) (O 903-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
Central Avenue Remediation — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. —
Health Dept. (Ward 6) (O 1516-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2087
Collinwood Community Services Center — elderly services program (Ward 10)
(O 1339-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Cudell Community Planning & Assessment Process — Neighborhood Progress Inc. — agreement
(Ward 18) (O 1574-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Dove Park Panthers Youth Association — Muny Football Program (Ward 2) (O 1166-01) . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Downtown Single Room Occupancy (SRO) — 1850 Superior Ave. — Famicos Foundation (Ward
13) (O 891-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. — Safety Education and Yard Light Program (Ward
6) (O 1485-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Fifty-Fifty Home Repair Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corp. (Ward 20)
(O 928-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
General Fund — deposit funds to Neighborhood Equity Fund — Ward Capital
Improvement Fund — Finance Dept. (O 1571-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002-2130
Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame — agreement — Glenville Development
Corporation (Ward 8) (O 1555-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Harvard School Senior Apartments project — amend O.1083-2000 (Ward 12) (O 1240-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
(Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) (O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Kenneth W. Clement School — classroom furniture (Ward 10) (O 1340-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Lutheran Housing Corp. — Home Repair Program (Ward 2) (O 935-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Memphis Ave., 4214 — renovation — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. (Ward 16)
(O 915-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.113-2000 (O 1235-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1135-2000 (O 1230-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1137-2000 (O 1237-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1715-99 (O 1213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.606-2000 (O 1227-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — two elevators (Ward 3) (O 1164-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Neighborhood Master Plan — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. — City
Planning Commission (Ward 6) (O 1515-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2087

2145

The City Record

210

August 22, 2001

Northeast Shores Development Corp. — 15510 Huntmere Ave. renovation (Ward 11)
(O 924-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2072
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corp. — 12001 Ashbury Ave. — renovation
(Ward 9) (O 934-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2073 2029
Phoenix Development Project — agreement — Tremont West Development Corp. (Ward
13) (O 1521-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Reddlo Development — agreement — Glenville Development Corp. (Ward 8) (O 1554-01). . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Senior Citizen Social Support Program — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corp. (Ward 6) (O 1514-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Corporation — Neighborhood Safety Video
Monitoring System (Ward 13) (O 1132-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2074
Tremont West Development Corporation — HOPE VI — amend O.809-01 (Ward
13) (O 1216-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Westside Industrial Retention & Expansion Network for Industrial Retention and
Public Safety Programs — agreement (Ward 18) (O 1654-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004-2131
Oath of Office
Molina, Francisco — Regional Transit Authority (F 1444-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Ruzic, Mark — Regional Transit Authority (F 1443-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Williams, James — Board of Building Standards (F 1442-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Recycle Ohio! Program, 2002 — grant — Public Service (O 1490-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
Ohio Department of Public Health
Infant Mortality Reduction Initiative Project, 2001-2002 — grant — contract
Lutheran Metropolitan Ministry Assoc. (O 1495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential environmental assessment, lead — Medicaid-eligible children —
Environment — Health Dept. (O 1499-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

with
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1947
Division of
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1948

Parking
Free for Special Event — Bishop Roger Gries — Willard Park Garage — Parks, Recreation
and Properties Dept. (O 1517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2088
Vehicles, prohibiting parking on vacant lots – supplement Code Section 451.241
- Community Development Dept. (O 1491-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Bisbee Playground — rehabilitation — 2001 Urban Parks and Recreation Recovery Program
— grant (O 1079-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2074
North Shore Collinwood Town Center — E. 174th St. & Lakeshore Blvd. — constructing —
Amend Section 3/O.503-01 (O 1568-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Parking, free for Special Event — Bishop Roger Gries — Willard Park Garage
(O 1517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2088
Parks, recreation facilities and property — improvement (O 849-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2071
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs — 2001- 2002 school year
(O 850-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2071
Round 8 NatureWorks Program — grant — Department of Natural Resources (O 1075-01). . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Ski Program, 2001 — amend Section 1/O.441-01 — Boston Mills Ski Resort
(O 1508-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1955
West Side and East Side Markets Millenium Project — alter and modify Contract No. 56521
— Envirocom Construction, Inc. (O 1507-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1954
West Side and East Side Markets Millennium Project — alter and modify Contract No. 56436
— RW Clark Company (O 1506-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1954
YMCA, Broadway Ave. — youth basketball program — amend Lease Agreement No. 35620
(O 1510-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1955
Peddlers
Boda, Cory (Ward 14) (O 1526-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dimarhos, Maria K. — E. 40th St. & Central Ave. (Ward 5) (O 1536-01).
Dimarhos, Maria K. — E. 22nd St. & Cedar Ave. (Ward 5) (O 1537-01). .
Johnson, Clyde (Ward 5) (O 1538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kostantinou, Emmanuel (Ward 5) (O 1539-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Majors, James (Ward 5) (O 1540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Robinson, Clarinda (Ward 14) (O 1527-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Robinson, Clarinda (Ward 5) (O 1541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Carl C. (Ward 1) (O 1545-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2146

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1961-2090
1965-2094
1965-2094
1966-2094
1966-2095
1966-2095
1961-2090
1966-2095
1968-2096

August 22, 2001

The City Record

211

Permits
Broom Court N.W. — U.S.A. Parking Systems, LLC; F.A.I., Inc. — right-of-way
encroachment (O 1487-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1942
Jake to the Rock — Hermes Race Systems (Ward 13) (O 1519-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Light the Night Walk — Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (Ward 13) (O 1520-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Mr. William McReynolds — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Race for the Cure, 8th Annual NE Ohio — Hermes Race Systems — Ward 8 (O 1575-01) . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
St. Ignatius/Cats in the Flats — St. Ignatius High School (Ward 14) (O 1525-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1961-2090
Turkey Trot Race — Hermes Race Systems (Ward 13) (O 1518-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2088
Personnel Department
AFSCME, Ohio Council 8, Local 100 — collective bargaining agreement (O 1558-01) .
Electrical Workers, International Brotherhood of, Local 39 — collective bargaining
agreement (O 1556-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Association of Machinists Districts Council 54, Local 439
— collective bargaining agreement (O 1559-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Medical, Life & Vision Insurance — contracts — City employees (O 1534-01) . . . . . . .
Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union ( Non-Supervisory), Local 1099 — collective
bargaining agreement (O 1561-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union (Supervisory), Local 1099 — collective
bargaining agreement (O 1560-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Novak, John T. — residency — Amend Section 1/O.323-01 (O 1530-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recovery Resources — Employee Assistance Program (O 1549-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications (O 1562-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Hospital Nursing Home & Public Employees (Custodial Workers & Bridge
Oilers), Local 47 — collective bargaining agreement (O 1557-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1964-2093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1980-2108
1962-2091
1973-2102
1981-2109

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2108

Plats
Catholic Charities Facilities Corp. — Public Service Dept. — City Planning Commission
(F 1441-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Police Division
Memorials for the safety forces, vandalism of — new Code Section 623.091
(O 1569-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Police aircraft — service and maintain — requirement contract (O 1354-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2084 2033
Scientific Examiner — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (O 1504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1953
Port Control Department
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Cleveland Hopkins International
& Burke Lakefront Airports (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945
Radiant Aviation Services — Infrared aircraft deicing facility — lease
— Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1221-A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1956-2077
Sound insulation programs — extend date participation (O 1531-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2091 1962
Public Safety
Fire safety boat — fully staff and operate — (O 213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Real Estate
Escrow agents, disbursal of funds — amend Code Section 367.13 (O 1528-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
South Boulevard, 10004-06 — sell — Glenville Development Corporation (O 1125-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2064
Recognition
Baker, Eddie Mae (R 1480-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Hall, Vera (R 1481-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Regional Transit Authority
Molina, Francisco — Oath of Office (F 1444-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Ruzic, Mark – Oath of Office (F 1443-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Residence Requirements
Novak, John T. — Amend Section 1/O.323-01 (O 1530-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
Resolutions – Miscellaneous
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company – objection to closing payment station (R 1640-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2023-2059

2147

The City Record

212

August 22, 2001

Right-of-Way
Mr. William McReynolds — permit — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Safety Department
Caribbean Gang Task Force Program, 2002 — grant — Justice Department (O 1356-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2084
Cleveland Team Approach to Violence Against Women Program — grant — Justice Department
(O 1357-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2084
COPS In Schools Program — grant — Justice Department (O 1358-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Emergency Medical Services Grant, 2000-2001 — amend Title & Section 1 of O.1427-00
(O 1360-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund — deposit (F 1437-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund — deposit (F 1438-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Memorials for the safety forces, vandalism of — new Code Section 623.091
(O 1569-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Police aircraft — service and maintain — requirement contract – Police Division
(O 1354-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2084
Scientific Examiner — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (O 1504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1953
STEP 2002 Program — grant — Ohio Public Safety Department (O 1359-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Weapons, possessing certain at or about public places — amend Code Section 627-10
(O 1361-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2085
Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — Personnel Dept. (O 1562-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1981-2109
Service Department
Addison Place & E. 72nd St. — intent to vacate portions — Streets Division
(R 1616-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
Broom Court N.W. — permit to U.S.A. Parking Systems, LLC; F.A.I., Inc. — right-of-way
encroachment (O 1487-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1942
Catholic Charities Facilities Corp. — plat — City Planning (F 1441-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
East 51st Place — intent to vacate (Ward 13) (R 1590-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2046
Mr. William McReynolds — permit — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078
Recycle Ohio! Program, 2002 — Ohio Department of Natural Resources — grant
(O 1490-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
Rock salt — requirement contract — Streets Division (O 1488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943
Schaaf Road (CR-97) Bridge — replace — County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 1489-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943
Velma Avenue S.E. — intent to vacate (Ward 1) (R 1609-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051
Sidewalks
Endora Avenue assessment — repair (O 1246-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2079
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — repair (O 1247-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2080
Slavic Village Association
Architectural Feasibility Study — Slavic Village Development Corp. — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (Ward 12) Community Development Dept. (O 1573-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
St. Vincent Quadrangle, Inc.
Superior Ave. 1900; Tower Press Building – contract — amend Section 2/O.863-2000
— Community Development Dept. (O 1512-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
State of Ohio
Water Tower Project, 2001— grant — contract — FAMICOS Foundation — power wash
eligible homes — Community Development Dept. (O 1542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2095
Statement of Work Acceptance
Advanced Roofing Systems Inc. — Water Pollution Control Div. — Utilities
Dept. (F 1447-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
De-Ko, Inc. — rehabilitate chlorine handling systems — Utilities Dept.
(F 1449-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
M-A Building & Maintenance Company — Tremont Health Center — Health
Dept. (F 1446-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilicon Corporation — sewer cleaning and lining — Utilities Dept. (F 1448-01)
Wiggins Interiors — interior improvements to various Cleveland health centers
Dept. (F 1445-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2148

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
...
...
—
...

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Health
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940

August 22, 2001

The City Record

213

Street Vacation
Addison Place & E. 72nd St. (Ward 7) (R 1616-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
Conn Court N. W. (Ward 13) (R 939-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2041
East 51st Place (Ward 13) (R 1590-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2046
Velma Avenue S.E. (Ward 1) (R 1609-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051

Streets Division
Rock salt — requirement contract (O 1488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943

Tax Abatement
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — ten tax year abatement —
Economic Development Dept. (O 1543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1967-2096

Tremont West Development Corporation
Phoenix Development Project — agreement — Neighborhood Equity Funds (Ward 13) Community
Development Dept. (O 1521-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
HOPE VI — amend O.809-01 — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1216-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076

Unions
AFSCME, Ohio Council 8, Local 100 — collective bargaining agreement — Personnel Dept.
(O 1558-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
Electrical Workers, International Brotherhood of, Local 39 — collective bargaining
agreement — Personnel Dept. (O 1556-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
International Association of Machinists Districts Council 54, Local 439
— collective bargaining agreement — Personnel Dept. (O 1559-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union ( Non-Supervisory), Local 1099 — collective
bargaining agreement — Personnel Dept. (O 1561-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
Municipal Foreman & Laborers Union (Supervisory), Local 1099 — collective
bargaining agreement — Personnel Dept. (O 1560-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1980-2108
Service Hospital Nursing Home & Public Employees (Custodial Workers & Bridge
Oilers), Local 47 — collective bargaining agreement — Personnel Dept.
(O 1557-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2108

Utilities Department
Advanced Roofing Systems Inc. — Water Pollution Control Div. (F 1447-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Billing system supplies (O 1144-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2074
De-Ko, Inc. — rehabilitate chlorine handling systems (F 1449-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Dionex Corporation — ion chromatograph — maintenance (O 1156-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075
Engineering, environmental, safety, forensic services (O 1232-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Federal and State environmental — OSHA — safety and health regulations — developmental
services — training sessions (O 1149-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075
Garrett A. Morgan Water Treatment Plant — residuals handling systems (O 1145-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075
Motor vehicle fleet — repair — Cleveland Public Power (O 1046-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Natural gas customers — City of Cleveland aggregator — proposal (O 640-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2070
Organic carbon analyzer equipment — maintenance — Shimadzy Scientific Instruments, Inc.
(O 1158-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Pleasant Valley Road — sell to and grant temporary easement — Cuyahoga County
Commissioners (O 1550-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1974-2102
Turbidimeters — chlorine analyzers — particle-size analyzers — Hach Company
(O 1157-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075
Utilicon Corporation — sewer cleaning and lining (F 1448-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Water rates — regular and special, homestead and direct service — amend Code Sections
535.04, 535.05 and 535.06 (O 1551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1975-2103

Vetoes
Bond expenses, services and legal opinions — amend Code Section 177.10 — Mayor’s Letter
— veto Ordinance No. 922-01 (F 922-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1939
MetroHealth Medical Center — First Amendment to City Contract No. 50407 — Mayor’s
Letter — veto Ordinance No. 1385-01 (F 1385-01A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940

2149

The City Record

214

August 22, 2001

Ward 01
Baker, Eddie Mae — Recognition (R 1480-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Hunter, Ocie — Condolence (R 1458-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Lee Rd., 4360 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1608-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2051
Liley, Louise — Condolence (R 1460-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Monroe, George L. — Condolence (R 1461-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Sharpe Family Reunion — Congratulation (R 1479-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Velma Avenue S.E. — intention to vacate (R 1609-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051
Williams, Carl C. — peddling (O 1545-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1968-2096
Williams, Claudia — Condolence (R 1459-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941

Ward 02
Dove Park Panthers Youth Association — Muny Football Program — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1166-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
E. 131st St., 3695-97 — transfer ownership — Liquor Permit (F 1452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Lutheran Housing Corp. — Home Repair Program — Neighborhood Equity Fund
(O 935-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Miles Ave., 13197-201 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1650-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2062
Warner Road, 4563 — renewal — withdraw objection — Liquor Permit (R 1651-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2063

Ward 03
E. 131st St., 3616 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1641-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2023-2060
E. 131st St., 3976 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1642-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2023-2060
E. 144th St., 3744 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1643-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2024-2060
Kinsman Ave., 13401 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1644-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2024-2061
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — transfer of ownership — objection — Liquor Permit
(R 1645-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2024-2061
Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — two elevators — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1164-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076

Ward 04
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.606-2000 (O 1227-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Ward 05
Dimarhos, Maria K. — peddling — E. 40th St. & Central Ave. (O 1536-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1965-2094
Dimarhos, Maria K. — peddling — E. 22nd St. & Cedar Ave. (O 1537-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1965-2094
E. 59th & E. 57th Streets — to Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc — Land Reutilization
Program (O 1535-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1965-2093
Johnson, Clyde — peddling (O 1538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1966-2094
Kostantinou, Emmanuel — peddling — E. 40th St. & Woodland Ave. (O 1539-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1966-2095
Majors, James — peddling (O 1540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1966-2095
Robinson, Clarinda — peddling (O 1541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1966-2095
Union Ave., 9901-03 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1607-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2050

Ward 06
Afterschool Music Program — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1513-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Bowie & Smith Family Reunion — Congratulation (R 1471-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Cansler, Helen Wright — Condolence Resolution (R 1456-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Cedar Ave., 10812 — renewal — objection (R 1581-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005-2043
Cedar Avenue, 8301 — renewal — objection (R 1578-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004-2042
Cedar Avenue, 8302 — renewal — objection (R 1579-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005-2042
Cedar Avenue, 8624 — renewal — objection (R 1580-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005-2043
Central Avenue Remediation — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. —
Health Dept. — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1516-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2087
Chester Avenue, 9308 — renewal — objection (R 1582-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006-2043
E. 105th St. — renewal — objection (R 1584-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006-2044
E. 105th St., 2249 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1585-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2044
E. 79th St., 1930 — renewal — objection (R 1583-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006-2043
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. — Safety Education and Yard Light Program —
Neighborhood Equity Funds — Community Development (O 1485-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Harris, William — Congratulation (R 1469-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1715-99 (O 1213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076

2150

August 22, 2001

The City Record

215

Mt. Carmel Avenue, 11543-45 — renewal — objection (R 1586-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2044
Neighborhood Master Plan — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. —
Neighborhood Equity Funds — City Planning Commission (O 1515-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2087
Oackley, Charles — Congratulation (R 1470-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Quincy Avenue, 8329 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1587-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2045
Quincy Avenue, 8502 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1588-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2007-2045
Quincy Avenue, 9209 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1589-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2045
Senior Citizen Social Support Program — agreement — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corp. — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1514-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1957-2087
Ward 07
Addison Place & E. 72nd St. — intent to vacate portions — Streets Division
(R 1616-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
Alexander, Jr., Rev. Edward & Mrs. Louise — Appreciation (R 1482-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
E. 55th St., 1905 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1610-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051
E. 71st St., 1144 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1612-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2052
E. 79th St., 1136 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1611-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2014-2051
E. 82nd St. & Hough Ave. — banner — permit — Ministerial Day Care (O 1546-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1968-2097
E. 82nd St., 1417 — to Roosevelt & Elizabeth Pendleton — Land Reutilization Program —
Community Development Dept. (O 1548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1973-2101
Flewellen, Icabod — Condolence (R 1468-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Hough Ave., 7001 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2052
Hough Ave., 7102 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1614-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2052
Superior Ave., 8802-06 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2015-2053
Taylor, Callie Mae — Condolence (R 1467-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Ward 08
Bradley Construction Company Headquarters and Hardware Store — construction
— Neighborhood Equity Funds — Community Development Dept. (O 1553-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Cannon, Bessie Belle Jones — Condolence (R 1457-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
E. 105th St., 1250 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1621-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2017-2054
E. 93rd St., 863-71 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1620-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2017-2054
Glenville Neighborhood Hall of Fame — agreement — Glenville Development Corporation —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1555-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1979-2107
Lakeview Rd., 970 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1622-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2055
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive — banner — permit — Cleveland Cultural Garden Federation
(O 1552-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.113-2000 (O 1235-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkwood, 974-78 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1623-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Race for the Cure, 8th Annual NE Ohio — permit — Hermes Race Systems (O 1575-01) . . . .
Reddlo Development — agreement — Glenville Development Corp. — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1554-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1978-2106
2031-2078
2018-2055
2003-2131

. . . . . . . 1979-2107

St. Clair Ave., 9021 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1624-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2055
Ward 09
Ashbury Ave., 10509 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1652-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2063
Burks, Walter A. — Condolence (R 1466-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Jackson, Pearl — Congratulation (R 1474-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corp. — 12001 Ashbury Ave. — renovation —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 934-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Superior Ave., 11625 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1653-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2027-2063
Waters, Congresswoman Maxine — welcome (R 1483-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Williams-Morrow Family Reunion — Congratulation (R 1473-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Ward 10
After School Community Outreach Program — agreement — EBC Fery Development Corp.
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1529-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1962-2091
Cedar Road, 8214 — renewal — objection (R 1577-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004-2042
Coats, W.C. — Condolence (R 1462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Coit Road, 14643 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1593-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2046
Collinwood Community Services Center — elderly services program — Neighborhood Equity
Funds — Community Development Dept. (O 1339-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Cotton, Catherine & Archie — Congratulation (R 1478-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
E. 140th St., 527 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1594-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2047
E. 140th St., 625 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1596-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2010-2047

2151

The City Record

216

August 22, 2001

E. 140th St., 662 — renewal — Objection — Liquor Permit (R 1595-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2047
E. 140th St., 831— renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1597-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2010-2047
E. 152nd St., 1030 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1598-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2010-2048
Endora Avenue assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1246-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2079
Euclid Ave., 18121 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1599-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2011-2048
Gibbs, Eria — Condolence (R 1463-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Kenneth W. Clement School — classroom furniture — Neighborhood Equity Funds
— Community Development Dept. (O 1340-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2082
Shaw Ave., 12901 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1603-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2012-2049
St. Clair Ave., 12730 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1600-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2011-2048
St. Clair Ave., 13001 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1601-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2011-2049
St. Clair Ave., 14102-06 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1602-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2012-2049
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1247-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2080
Ward 11
Berry, Sr., Daniel L. — Condolence (R 1465-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
E. 156th St., 231 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1625-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2018-2056
E. 156th St., 397 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1626-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2019-2056
E. 185th St., 568 — transfer ownership — withdraw objection — Liquor Permit
(R 1633-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 185th St., 747 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1632-01) . . . . . . .
E. 185th St., 910 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1627-01) . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 15428 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1628-01) .
Lakeshore Blvd., 17318 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1629-01) .
Lakeshore Blvd., 17910 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1631-01) .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1137-2000 (O 1237-01).
Mr. William McReynolds — permit — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 2021-2058
. 2021-2058
. 2019-2056
. 2019-2056
. 2020-2057
. 2020-2057
. 2031-2078
. 2031-2078

North Shore Collinwood Town Center — E. 174th St. & Lakeshore Blvd. — constructing —
Amend Section 3/O.503-01 (O 1568-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128
Northeast Shores Development Corp. — 15510 Huntmere Ave. renovation — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 924-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2072
St. Clair Ave., 15521 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1630-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2020-2057
Towards Employment — Congratulation — (R 1475-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1247-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2080
Waterloo Rd., 15601 — renewal — withdraw objection — Liquor Permit (R 1634-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2021-2058

Ward 12
Architectural Feasibility Study — Slavic Village Development Corp. — Neighborhood
Equity Funds — Community Development Dept. (O 1573-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boys and Girls Clubs of Cleveland — grant agreement — Community Development Dept.
(O 1348-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave., 7663 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1646-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 65th St., 3071 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1647-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard School Senior Apartments project — amend O.1083-2000 — Neighborhood Equity

. . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
. . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
. . . . . . . . . 2025-2061
. . . . . . . . . 2025-2061

Funds (O 1240-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2078

Ward 13
Adrine, Judge Ronald B. — Congratulation (R 1477-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Conn Court N. W. — intent to vacate (R 939-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2041
Downtown Single Room Occupancy (SRO) — 1850 Superior Ave. — Famicos Foundation —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 891-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
East 51st Place — intent to vacate — Public Service Dept. (R 1590-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2046
Euclid Ave., 2083 — transfer ownership & location — Liquor Permit (F 1454-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Fleet Ave., 5509 — stock transfer — Liquor Permit (F 1455-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Frankfort Avenue, 620 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1591-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008-2046
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) Community Development Dept.
(O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Jake to the Rock — Hermes Race Systems — permit (O 1519-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Light the Night Walk — Leukemia & Lymphoma Society — permit (O 1520-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Phoenix Development Project — agreement — Tremont West Development Corp. —
Neighborhood Equity Funds — Community Development Dept. (O 1521-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2088
Sokolowski, Marion — Condolence (R 1464-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
St. Augustine Church — Congratulation (R 1476-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Corporation — Neighborhood Safety Video
Monitoring System — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1132-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2074

2152

August 22, 2001

The City Record

217

Superior Ave., 2553 — new application — liquor permit (F 1450-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Tremont West Development Corporation — HOPE VI — amend O.809-01 — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1216-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
Turkey Trot Race — Hermes Race Systems — permit (O 1518-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2088
W. 9th St., 1281 — transfer ownership & location — withdraw objection — Liquor Permit
(R 1592-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009-2046
Ward Boundaries (Wards 13 and 14) amend Code Sections 103.13 and 103.14 (O 1570-01) . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128

Ward 14
Boda, Cory — peddling (O 1526-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1961-2090
Detroit Ave., 4204 — transfer ownership — Liquor Permit (F 1451-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) Community Development Dept.
(O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Robinson, Clarinda — peddling (O 1527-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1961-2090
Scranton Rd., W. 25th St., Sackett Ave., Southpoint & MetroHealth Drives — banners —
permit (O 1524-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1960-2090
St. Ignatius/Cats in the Flats — permit — St. Ignatius High School (O 1525-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1961-2090
W. 41st St. & Clark Ave. & on Fulton, Daisy, Barber & Wade Aves — banners — permit
(O 1523-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1960-2089
Ward Boundaries (Wards 13 and 14) amend Code Sections 103.13 and 103.14 (O 1570-01) . . . . . . . . . . . 2000-2128

Ward 15
Archwood, 3912 — renewal — withdraw objection — Liquor Permit (R 1606-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2050
Denison Ave., 3829 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1605-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2013-2050
Pearl Rd., Denison Ave. & Fulton Rd. — banners — permit — Archwood Denison Concerned
Citizens (O 1532-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1963-2092

Ward 16
Memphis Ave., 4214 — renovation — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 915-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1247-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033-2080

Ward 17
Bridge Square housing project — Phase II — Detroit Shoreway Community Dev. Org.
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 903-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2028-2072
Detroit Ave., 5910 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1617-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) Community Development Dept.
(O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Lorain Ave., 7310 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1618-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2016-2053
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend O.1135-2000 (O 1230-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2077
Storer Ave., 6104 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1619-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2017-2054

Ward 18
Cudell Community Planning & Assessment Process — Neighborhood Progress Inc. — agreement
— Neighborhood Equity Funds — Community Development Dept. (O 1574-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003-2131
Hall, Vera — Recognition (R 1481-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
HIV/AIDS Education/Prevention Program — agreement — Near West Side Multi-Service Center
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (Wards 13, 14, 17, 18) Community Development Dept.
(O 1522-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1959-2089
Lorain Ave., 10025 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1649-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2026-2062
Terrell, Bonnie Jean — congratulation (R 1472-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
Westside Industrial Retention & Expansion Network for Industrial Retention and
Public Safety Programs — agreement — Neighborhood Equity Funds — Community
Development Dept. (O 1654-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004-2131

Ward 19
A Cultural Exchange — The Read, Baby, Read Book Club — agreement – Neighborhood Equity
Funds — Community Development Dept. (O 1337-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2031-2082
Bellair Rd., 12208 — renewal — objection (R 1576-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004-2041

2153

The City Record

218

August 22, 2001

Ward 20
Fifty-Fifty Home Repair Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corp. —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 928-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2029-2073
Rocky River Drive, 4792 — renewal — objection — Liquor Permit (R 1648-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2025-2062
Ward 21
Kamm’s Corners Community Development Corp. — amend Contract No. 56705 — Community
Development Dept. (O 1350-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032-2083
Water Division
Dionex Corporation — ion chromatograph — maintenance (O 1156-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garrett A. Morgan Water Treatment Plant — residuals handling systems (O 1145-01) . . .
Organic carbon analyzer equipment — maintenance — Shimadzy Scientific Instruments,
(O 1158-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turbidimeters — chlorine analyzers — particle-size analyzers — Hach Company
(O 1157-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075
. . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075
Inc.
. . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2076
. . . . . . . . . . . 2030-2075

Water Pollution Control Division
Advanced Roofing Systems Inc. — Utilities Dept. (F 1447-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1940
Water Rates
Regular and special, homestead and direct service — amend Code Sections 535.04, 535.05
and 535.06 (O 1551-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1975-2103
Welcome
Waters, Congresswoman Maxine (R 1483-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1941
West Side Market
West Side and East Side Markets Millenium Project — alter and modify Contract No. 56521
— Envirocom Construction, Inc. — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept.
(O 1507-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1954
West Side and East Side Markets Millennium Project — alter and modify Contract No. 56436
— RW Clark Company — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept.
(O 1506-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1954
Willard Park Garage
Parking, free for Special Event — Bishop Roger Gries — Willard Park Garage — Parks,
Recreation and Properties Dept. (O 1517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1958-2088
YMCA – Broadway Branch
Youth basketball program — amend Lease Agreement No. 35620 — Parks, Recreation and
Properties Dept. (O 1510-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1955

2154

