The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
March the Twenty-First, Two Thousand and One

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
25
32
36
37
38
38
38
38
39
52
52

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3232 East 119th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis.........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Susan E. Axelrod, Senior Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Nicholas P. Jackson, Executive Assistant for Services
Nina Turner, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Marvin Hayes, Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Pinky Carr, Chief Counsel,
Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Ronald E. Brooks, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert C. Brown, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Daniel Jarvis, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Reuben Sheperd, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Donald Culp, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Alfred T. Miller, Jr.,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DE PT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Mic hael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVI L SERV ICE COMMISSION – Ro om 1 19, An ne Blo ombe rg, Presi de nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox,
P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Ronald E. Brooks, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Ronald E. Brooks; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush, James Gibans,
Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J.
Melena, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2001

Vol. 88

No. 4554

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2001
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Jones, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jackson,
Melena,
Sweeney.

RUBY F. MOSS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Jackson,
Reed, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed, Westbrook, White.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Melena, Polensek, Westbrook,
Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Reed, White.
The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
O’Malley, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Patmon, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 19, 2001.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Michael D. Polensek, in the Chair.
Councilmen present: Brady, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Patmon,
Reed,
Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Carter, Brooks, Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander, Dove, Morrison, McCall, and
Ambroz and Acting Directors Szabo
and Cox.
Absent: Directors
Guzman and
Miller.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2976-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Father
Thomas D. Mahoney, Pastor of St.
Patrick Westpark, located at 4427
Rocky River Drive in Ward 21.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Councilman Cimperman, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Councilman Melena.

503

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 463-01.
Re: New Application - 0222094 ANJ Food Mart, Inc., d.b.a. A. & J.
Food Mart, 10130 Madison Avenue.
(Ward 18). Received.
File No. 464-01.
Re: New Application - 6072057 - Mo
& Son, Inc., 14510 Kinsman Avenue.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 465-01.
Re: New Application - 40910710005 Husnia, Inc., d.b.a., Saveliner Supermarket, 10716 Woodland Avenue.
(Ward 6). Received.
File No. 466-01.
Re: New Application - 3528654 Sylvester Hall, d.b.a. J. K. A. Beverage Co., 18027 Euclid Avenue.
(Ward 10). Received.
File No. 467-01.
Re: New Application - 1127208 - Ronald M. Burrell, d.b.a. Burrells, 523 East
140th Street. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 468-01.
Re: New Application - 0588686 Bellaire Citgo, Inc., 3934 West 117th
Street. (Ward 19). Received.
File No. 469-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 2976100 - F X Restaurant Company,
Inc., d.b.a. Zin Restaurant and Bistro,
13114 Larchmere Avenue, first floor
and basement. (Ward 4). Received.
File No. 470-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 27088760005 Suroc, Inc., d.b.a. Sushi Rock, 1276
West 6th Street. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 471-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 05951750005 Thomas K. Bell, 819 Jefferson Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 472-01.
Re: Legislative Authority Notice —
Qasem, Inc., 2747 Cedar Avenue.
(Ward 5). Received.
COMMUNICATION
File No. 473-01.
February 13, 2001
The Honorable Michael D. Polensek
Cleveland City Council President
Cleveland City Hall
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Council President Polensek:
Pursuant to newly enacted Chapter
665 of the Codified Ordinances, I am

The City Record

4
nominating the following people to
be considered by City Council:
• Doris Honsa, Living In Cleveland Center’s Education Specialist
• Ruben Mendiola, Ohio City Near
West Development Corp.
• Michael Doud, Cuyahoga County Community Mental Health
Board
In addition, I have selected the following person to serve as my representative that does not require the
approval of City Council.
• Charles See, Cultural Mitigation
Consultant
I am including copies of the resumes
for all four.
It is my sincerest hope that these
nominations will be considered in a
timely manner so that the citizens
of Cleveland have the fullest protection possible against discriminatory housing practices.
Sincerely,
MICHAEL R. WHITE
Mayor
Received. Referred to Committee
on Mayor’s Appointments.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote.
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.

No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.

474-01—John Petric.
475-01—Reneé L. Glamm.
476-01—William Chiuppa.
477-01—Linda Hampton.
478-01—Officer Barry.
479-01—James Dickson.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection.
Res. No. 480-01—Clara Carter.
Res. No. 481-01—Jessica Franklin.
Res. No. 482-01—Capt. Edward E.
McCaffery.
Res. No. 483-01—Officer Sean O’Donnell.
Res. No. 484-01—Edward M. Kovachy.
Res. No. 485-01—Michael J. Veres.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection.
Res. No. 486-01—James Cody.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection.
Res. No. 487-01—Gina Quin.
Res.
No.
488-01—Thomas
Namara.

Mc-

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 489-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Jacobsen mower parts,
for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
Jacobsen
mower
parts,
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 3081)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 490-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paper and cloth wipers,
for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement con-

504

March 21, 2001
tract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
paper and cloth wipers, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 3080)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 491-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of lumber and supplies, for
the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of lumber and supplies, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
one year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.

March 21, 2001
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 3082)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 492-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the issuance and sale of subordinated airport revenue notes in the
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $46,000,000, in anticipation of
the issuance of bonds, to retire outstanding notes issued to pay costs
of acquiring real property and interests in real property for the purpose
of improving the Airport System.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 78-99 passed January 14, 1999,
the City issued $40,000,000 Taxable
Airport
Surplus
Revenue
Notes,
Series 1999 (“Outstanding Notes”)
for the purpose of acquiring real
property and interests therein for
the future expansion of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, the Outstanding Notes
mature on June 15, 2001 and it is
necessary to issue the Notes herein
authorized to retire the Outstanding
Notes and to do so as soon as possible to take advantage of favorable
conditions in the financial markets,
and, as a result, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health,
and safety and for the usual and
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance, unless the
context or use clearly indicates
another or different meaning or
intent:
“Airport” means Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, as it now
exists or hereafter may be changed,
modified, or expanded.
“Airport System” means the Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport,
as it now exists or hereafter may be
changed, modified or expanded.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
book entry interests in Notes and the
principal of and interest on the
Notes
may
be
transferred
only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Note certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Notes
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the

The City Record
record that identifies the owners of
book entry interests in those Notes
and that principal and interest.
“Certificate of Award” means, the
certificate authorized by Section 11,
to be signed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Notes and their
issuance, sale, and delivery, as this
Ordinance requires or authorizes to
be set forth or determined therein.
“City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
“Clerk” means the Clerk of Council of the City.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means, collectively, the certificate or certificates authorized by
Section 14, which, together with the
agreements of the City set forth in
that Section, shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and book entry owners
of the Notes in accordance with the
Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the
Notes.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Notes or the principal
and interest, and to effect transfers
of Notes, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Director of Finance” means the
Director
of
the
Department
of
Finance of the City.
“Director
of
Law”
means
the
Director of the Department of Law
of the City.
“Director of Port Control” means
the Director of the Department of
Port Control of the City.
“Financial Advisor” means Carmona Motley Hoffmann, Inc., or such
other financial advisor to the City
selected from time to time by the City.
“Indenture”
means
the
Trust
Indenture, dated as of November 1,
1976, between the City and The
Cleveland Trust Company, as original Trustee, together with all supplements thereto.
“Mayor” means the Mayor of the
City.
“Note Proceedings” means, collectively, this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, the Purchase Agreement, any trust agreement, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate, and
such other proceedings of the City,
including the Notes, that provide collectively for, among other things,
the rights of holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Notes:
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., and Goldman,
Sachs & Co.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
“Project” means the acquisition of
real property and interests in real
property for the purpose of improving the Airport System.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12, prescribed
by
the
Securities
and

505

5
Exchange Commission pursuant to
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
“Subordinated Airport Revenue”
means the Airport Revenue (as
defined in the Indenture) deposited
in the Surplus Fund and/or the
Improvement Fund (both Funds as
created under Section 5.02 of the
Indenture), subject to any requirements of the Use Agreements (as
defined in the Indenture) for the
approval by the Airlines (as defined
in the Indenture) of, or lack of
objection by the Airlines to, the use
by the City of such deposits for the
Project.
Any reference herein to the City
or the Council of the City, the Director of Finance, the Director of Law,
the Clerk, or any other officers of
the City, shall include those who or
which succeed to the functions,
duties, or responsibilities thereof
pursuant to or by operation of law
or who or which are lawfully performing such functions, duties, or
responsibilities.
Unless the context shall otherwise
indicate, words importing the singular number shall include the
plural number, and vice versa.
Section 2. The Bonds. It is necessary for the reasons set forth in the
preambles to this Ordinance to issue
bonds of this City in the aggregate
principal amount of not to exceed
$46,000,000 (the “Bonds”) to pay a
portion of the costs of the Project,
including costs of issuance of the
Bonds, to adequately fund any debt
service reserve fund that may be
established pursuant to Section 12,
and to retire the Notes (as defined
in Section 3 below). Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable semiannually until the principal amount is paid.
The Bonds are estimated to mature
in 25 annual principal installments
that are in such amounts that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable are substantially equal. The Bonds will be
subordinated revenue obligations of
the City, the principal of and interest on which will be secured solely
by, and payable solely from, Subordinated Airport Revenue. The Notes
may be retired from the proceeds of
obligations issued other than the
Bonds or from other moneys available for such purpose. The Bonds or
other obligations that may be issued
to retire the Notes will have such
terms as are provided in a subsequent ordinance of this Council
authorizing their issuance and sale.
Section 3. Issuance of Notes. It is
necessary for the reasons set forth
in the preambles to this Ordinance,
and this Council determines, that
notes in the aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $46,000,000
(the “Notes”) shall be issued in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds, the proceeds of which will be
used to retire the Outstanding Notes,
to pay costs of any Credit Support
Instrument with respect to the
Notes, to fund interest on the Notes
and any debt service reserve fund
established under Section 12, and to
pay costs of issuance of the Notes.
The Notes shall be issued in the
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $46,000,000 that is determined
by the Director of Finance in the
Certificate of Award to be required
to be issued for the purposes stated
above in this Section, taking into
account other moneys available for
such purposes. The Notes shall be

6
dated the date of issuance or such
other date as is designated in the
Certificate of Award. The Notes
shall mature on a date to be determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award in accordance with his determination of the
best interest of and financial advantages to the City, provided that such
date shall not be later than five
years from the date of issuance of
the Notes.
Section 4. Interest. The Notes shall
bear interest from their date at the
rate per annum set forth in the Certificate of Award, or if any Notes
bear interest at a variable rate, at
the rate determined pursuant to the
method set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Interest on the Notes
shall be payable on the dates determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award and until
the principal amount is paid or payment is provided for. If any Notes
bear interest at a fixed rate, that
rate shall not exceed eight percent
(8%) per year (computed on the
basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) and interest
shall be payable not more often
than every six months and at maturity or at any earlier redemption
date. If any Notes bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth in
Section 5, and interest shall be
payable not more often than once a
month and following purchase and
at
maturity
or
at
any
earlier
redemption date.
Section 5. Variable Rate Notes. In
the event that the Director of
Finance determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes
to be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates, redeemable by the
City without penalty or premium on
interest adjustment dates, then the
Director of Finance is authorized to
so specify in the Certificate of
Award. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Notes shall be determined,
whether by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that the variable rate Notes shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of twelve percent (12%) per annum. That maximum interest rate shall not apply to
variable rate Notes during any period those Notes are held by a
provider of a Credit Support Instrument because they could not be
remarketed and the terms of the
Credit Support Instrument do not
permit such a maximum rate of
interest. Holders of variable rate
Notes may be given the right to tender their variable rate Notes for purchase by the City at the times, on
the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in
place that provides for the payment
of the purchase price payable to the
tendering holder of a variable rate
Note. If the Director of Finance designates any Notes as variable rate
Notes, and if the holders of the variable rate Notes are to be entitled to
tender the variable rate Notes for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of

The City Record
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Notes the provider or
providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support
Instruments,
tender
agents (which may be the Registrar), remarketing agents, and others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders
the right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of the variable rate Notes upon
tender for purchase or redemption,
and providing for the repayment by
the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Notes, and regardless of the
Notes bearing interest at variable or
fixed rates, is authorized to contract
for a Credit Support Instrument, and
to pay the costs of it from proceeds
of the Notes, if he determines that
the Credit Support Instrument will
result in a savings in the cost of
this financing to the City.
Section
6.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Notes; Redemption.
The debt charges on the Notes shall
be payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America as determined by
the Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award, and shall be
payable, without deduction for services of the Registrar (as defined in
Section 7) as the City’s paying
agent. If agreed to by the Original
Purchaser, the Notes shall be subject to redemption without penalty
or premium at the option of the City
in whole or in part at any time prior
to maturity as provided in this Ordinance.
If fewer than all of the Notes of
a
single
maturity
are
to
be
redeemed, the selection of Notes of
that maturity to be redeemed, or
portions thereof in amounts of the
minimum authorized denomination
or any integral multiple thereof,
shall be made by lot in a manner
determined by the Registrar. In the
case of a partial redemption of
Notes by lot when Notes of denominations greater than the minimum
authorized denomination are then
outstanding, each unit of principal
thereof in the amount of the minimum authorized denomination shall
be treated as if it were a separate
Note of the denomination of the minimum authorized denomination. If it
is determined that one or more, but
not all, of the units of principal
amount in the amount of the minimum authorized denomination represented by a Note are to be called
for redemption, then, upon notice of

506

March 21, 2001
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Note shall
surrender the Note to the Registrar
(i) for payment of the redemption
price of such unit or units of principal amount called for redemption
(including, without limitation, the
interest accrued to the date fixed
for
redemption),
and
(ii)
for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner, of a new Note or
Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Note surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Notes shall identify (i) by
designation, letters, numbers, or
other
distinguishing
marks,
the
Notes or portions thereof to be
redeemed, (ii) the redemption price
to be paid, (iii) the date fixed for
redemption, and (iv) the place or
places where the amounts due upon
redemption are payable. The notice
shall be given by the Registrar on
behalf of the City by mailing a copy
of the redemption notice by first
class mail, postage prepaid, at least
30 days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Note subject to redemption
in whole or in part at the registered
owner’s address shown on the Note
Register (as defined in Section 7)
maintained by the Registrar at the
close of business on the 15th day
preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Note,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Note.
In
the
event
that
notice
of
redemption shall have been given
by the Registrar to the registered
owners as provided above, there
shall be deposited with the Registrar on or prior to the redemption
date, moneys that, in addition to
any other moneys available therefor
and held by the Registrar, will be
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price thereof, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date, all
of the redeemable Notes for which
notice
of
redemption
has
been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Notes and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
accrued
interest to the redemption date. If
moneys for the redemption of all of
the Notes and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with accrued
interest thereon to the redemption
date, are held by the Registrar on
the redemption date, so as to be
available therefor on that date and,
if notice of redemption has been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
those moneys shall not be so available on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Notes and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All moneys

March 21, 2001
held by
the Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Notes shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Notes.
Section 7. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent, and paying agent for
the Notes after determining that the
payment at that bank or trust company will not endanger the funds or
securities of the City and that proper procedures and safeguards are
available for that purpose (the
“Registrar”).
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a registrar agreement or agreements between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. In the event
that a trust agreement secures the
Notes, as provided in Section 12, the
Registrar Agreement may be incorporated in such trust agreement.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
The Notes shall be issued only as
fully registered Notes. Principal on
the Notes shall be payable when due
upon presentation and surrender of
the Notes at the designated office of
the Registrar designated in the Registrar Agreement. Interest on each
Note shall be paid on each interest
payment date by check or draft
mailed to the person in whose name
the Note was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Note Register (defined below in this
Section) at the close of business on
the 15th day of the calendar month
next preceding that interest payment date. The City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange, and transfer
of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”) so long as any
of the Notes remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Note is registered on the Note Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of the Note Proceedings.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Registrar shall be affected by any
notice to the contrary, but the registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Notes are issued
in a book entry system, principal
of and interest on the Notes shall
be payable in the manner provided
in any agreement entered into by
the Director of Finance, in the
name and on behalf of the City, in
connection with the book entry system.

The City Record
Section 8. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Notes. Notes may be
exchanged for Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the office designated by the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on
the Note Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Note at the
office designated by the Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
Upon exchange or transfer, the Registrar shall complete, authenticate,
and deliver a new Note or Notes, of
any
authorized
denomination
or
authorized denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
the Note Proceedings. The exchange
or transfer shall be without charge
to the owner, except that the City
and Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
special obligations of the City, evidencing the same debt, and entitled
to the same security and benefit
under the Note Proceedings, as the
Notes
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Note during the period
beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the
mailing of a notice of redemption of
Notes and ending at the close of
business on the day of such mailing
or to transfer or exchange any Note
selected for redemption in whole or
in part.
Section 9. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interests of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Notes
may be issued in book entry form
in accordance with the provisions of
this Section. As used in this Section
and this Ordinance:
The Notes may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized, (i) the
Notes may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Note representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the book entry
interest owners of Notes in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Notes in the form of physi-

507

7
cal securities or certificates; (iii)
ownership of book entry interests in
book entry form shall be shown by
book entry on the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of book entry
interests shall be made only by book
entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv) the Notes as such
shall
not
be
transferable
or
exchangeable, except for transfer to
another Depository or to another
nominee of a Depository, without
further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Notes for use in a book entry
system, the Director of Finance may
attempt to establish a securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or
is unable to do so, the Director of
Finance, after making provision for
notification of the book entry interest owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Notes from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver note
certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Notes,
after determining that the signing
thereof will not endanger the funds
or securities of the City and after
the approval of the form of any such
agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 10. Execution of Notes.
Notes shall be signed by the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, in the
name of the City and in their official capacities, provided that either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile, and shall bear the seal
of the City or a facsimile thereof;
provided that no Note shall be valid
or obligatory for any purpose or
shall be entitled to any security or
benefit under the Note Proceedings
unless and until the certificate of
authentication printed on the Note is
signed by the Registrar as authenticating agent, and authentication
by the Registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that the Note so authenticated has been duly issued, signed
and delivered under, and is entitled
to the security and benefit of, the
Note Proceedings. The certificate of
authentication may be signed by
any authorized officer or employee
of the Registrar or by any other person acting as an agent of the Registrar and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City.
The same person need not sign the
certificate of authentication on all
of the Notes.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Notes and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature. The
Notes shall be issued in the denominations as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the
Director of Finance, in conformity
with this Ordinance. The entire principal amount may be represented by
a single note and may be issued as

8
fully registered securities and in
book entry or other uncertificated
form if it is determined by the
Director of Finance that issuance of
fully registered securities in that
form will facilitate the sale and
delivery of the Notes. The Notes
may be issued in the authorized
denominations of either (a) $100,000
each or in any denomination that is
the sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii)
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and not exchangeable for other
Notes in denominations less than
$100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, as determined
by the Director of Finance in the
Certificate of Award to be in the
best interests of the City. The Notes
shall not have coupons attached,
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance and shall
express upon their faces the purpose, in summary terms, for which
they are issued and that they are
issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Sale of Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at not less than
97% of par plus accrued interest at
private sale by the Director of
Finance to the Original Purchaser
in accordance with law and the provisions of this Ordinance. If, in the
reasonable opinion of the Director of
Finance, an underwriter is incapable of fully performing its duties
or meeting its obligations in its
capacity as Original Purchaser with
respect to the Notes, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Notes
to be prepared, and have the Notes
signed and delivered, together with
a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Notes if requested by the Original
Purchaser, to the Original Purchaser upon payment of the purchase
price. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a note purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in a form
consistent with this Ordinance and
as approved by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. The Mayor, the Director of Finance, the Clerk, the Director of Law, and other City officials,
as appropriate, are each authorized
and directed to sign any transcript
certificates,
financial
statements
and other documents and instruments and to take such actions as
are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
Section 12. Security for the Notes.
The Notes are special obligations of
the City. The interest on the Notes,
unless paid from other sources
available to the City, is secured solely by, and is payable solely from
proceeds of the Notes or Bonds or

The City Record
the Subordinated Airport Revenue.
The principal of the Notes, unless
paid from other sources available to
the City, is payable solely from the
proceeds of the Bonds. The City
covenants and agrees to do all
things
necessary
to
effect
the
issuance and delivery, prior to the
maturity of the Notes, of the Bonds
or any renewal notes, in that principal amount as may be necessary,
together with any other moneys
available to the City for the purpose, to pay the principal of the
Notes when due at maturity and to
do all things necessary to sell the
Bonds in sufficient time to permit
their delivery prior to the maturity
of the Notes. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Bonds
or of any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City covenants and agrees to
issue Additional Revenue Bonds on
a
parity
with
Airport
Revenue
Bonds (all as defined in the Indenture) to retire the Notes, if and to
the extent the City can satisfy the
conditions
precedent
under
the
Indenture for the issuance of Additional Revenue Bonds. Further, if
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, that under conditions of the market at that time, the
Bonds cannot be issued with reasonable terms, the City covenants
and agrees that it will issue obligations payable from other City
sources to retire the Notes at maturity.
The City shall not be obligated to
pay principal of and interest on the
Notes from any funds or sources
other than those described in this
Section, and the Notes shall not be
a claim upon or lien against any
other property of the City. The
Notes, as to both principal and interest, are not general obligations of
the City, and the full faith and credit of the City is not pledged to their
payment. The holders of the Notes
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment
of principal of and interest on the
Notes.
Nothing
herein,
however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the City,
of its own volition, from using, to
the extent that it is authorized by
law to do so, any other resources for
the fulfillment of any of the terms,
conditions, or obligations of this
Ordinance or of the Notes.
The City will observe and perform
all its agreements and obligations
provided for by the Notes or this
Ordinance. All of the obligations
under this Ordinance are hereby
established as duties specifically
enjoined by law and resulting from
an office, trust, or station upon the
City within the meaning of Section
2731.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
In the event that the interest on
the Notes is to be provided for from
Note proceeds, or if in the judgment
of the Director of Finance, after consultation with the Financial Advisor, a debt service reserve to secure
the Notes is in the best interest of
and financially advantageous to the
City, the City shall enter into a trust
agreement with the bank or trust
company serving as Registrar for
the Notes and providing for a debt
service fund or debt service reserve
fund, as applicable, to be held by
that bank or trust company, in its

508

March 21, 2001
capacity as trustee, and such fund
or funds are hereby authorized. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the trust agreement in
a form consistent with this Ordinance and approved by the Director
of Law. The Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Port Control
and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to take such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate such additional security for the Notes. Such trust
agreement may be supplemental to
the Indenture. The City hereby
covenants and agrees to appropriate
annually from the Subordinated Airport Revenue into any such funds
amounts sufficient to maintain the
balances
required
by
the
trust
agreement and to restore any deficiency therein.
Section 13. Note Proceeds. The pro ceeds from the sale of the Notes are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purpose for which the Notes are
being issued. Any portion of the proceeds to be used to pay interest on
the Notes or to make a required
deposit to a debt service reserve
fund shall be paid into the debt service fund and debt service reserve
fund, respectively, created pursuant
to Section 12.
Section 14. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial Advisor and the Original Purchaser, an official statement or
other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering
of
the
Notes,
the
Director
of
Finance, on behalf of the City and
in that officer’s official capacity, is
authorized to (i) cooperate with the
Original Purchaser in the preparation of, and the making of modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, such a disclosure
document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when
the disclosure document is to be
deemed final or is final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that
disclosure document and any supplements thereto in connection with
the initial offering of the Notes, and
(iv) sign certificates, statements or
other documents in connection with
the finality, accuracy, and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes, the City agrees, as the
only obligated person with respect
to the Notes under the Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data, audited financial statements
and notices, in such manner, as may
be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, and if required under
the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure
Certificate or Certificates in conformance
with
the
reporting
requirements of the Rule. The agreement formed, collectively, by this
paragraph and that Certificate, shall
be the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,

March 21, 2001
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 15. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Original Purchaser, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Notes
by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a Credit
Support Instrument is in the best
interest of, and financially advantageous to, the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to
provide to each such agency, company or Credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Notes.
Section 16. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Notes, the
Director of Finance may, based on
the written advice of the Financial
Advisor, enter into one or more
agreements in connection with or
subsequent to the issuance of the
Notes for an interest rate swap, an
interest rate cap or other such
arrangement to lower the effective
interest rate on the obligations to
the City or to hedge the exposure of
the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates, provided, however, that: (i) the debt structure that
is simulated through the combination of the Notes with any such
agreements shall comply with the
restrictions of this Ordinance on the
terms of and security for the Notes
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Notes; (ii) the
counterparty to any swap agreement
and the provider of any interest rate
cap shall have a rating of at least
“A” by either Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii) no such agreement
shall purport to entitle the counterparty to the agreement to payment
by the City from any source other
than the sources which secure the
Notes as described in this Ordinance;
(iv) the cost of obtaining any such
interest rate cap or other such
arrangement shall have been determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, to be justified by
the corresponding benefit to the
City and to be commercially reasonable based on then current market conditions. The notional amount

The City Record
on which any such agreement is
based shall not be subject to the
limitations set forth herein on the
maximum principal amount of the
Notes.
Section 17. Tax Covenants. In the
event that the Notes are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
that is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, the
covenants in this Section 17 shall
govern. However, if the Notes are
issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is included in gross
income for federal income tax purposes, the City shall not be bound
by the covenants of this Section
with respect to the Notes.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Notes in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest on the
Notes will not be treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57
of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes is hereby
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval, or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Notes as the City is permitted to or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for
in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code
or available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
or interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that
purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,

509

9
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript of proceedings for the
Notes, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes.
Section 18. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 19. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Notes
authorized herein. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
notes, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, trust indentures,
trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered
into by the City.
Section 20. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City or
to have been met precedent to and
in the issuing of the Notes in order
to make them legal, valid, and binding special obligations of the City
have been performed and have been
met, or will at the time of delivery
of the Notes have been performed
and have been met, in regular and
due form as required by law, and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional,
is
applicable
to
the
issuance of the Notes.
Section 21. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 22. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

The City Record

10

March 21, 2001

Ord. No. 493-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 56174 for emergency repairs to Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp with Perk Company, Inc.
for the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. 56174 with Perk Company Inc. for emergency repairs to Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd
Street ramp, for the Department of Public Service:
SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

5" Strip seal structural steel joint
1/2" x 8" x 1'4" elastromeric bearing pad
Abutment re-facing
Trench drains and downspouts
Expansion joint repair
Conc. Pavt. @ exp. Jt. and trench drain
Expansion cap beam re-facing
Floor stringer repairs
City of Cleveland mix light pole bases

211 l.f. @ 246.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 51,906.00
36 each @ $175.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,300.00
120 s.y. @ $555.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66,600.00
3 lump @ $3,500.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,500.00
37 c.y. @ $395.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14,615.00
105 s.y. @ $525.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55,125.00
65 c.y. @ $2,526.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 164,190.00
47 c.y. @ $2,630.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 123,610.00
4 each @ $1,500.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,000.00

TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
Original contract Amount
Subsidiary Additions
TOTAL REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$498,846.00
$
+
$

215,585.00
498,846.00
714,431.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Public Service, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on said contract, which price to be paid therefor has been agreed upon
in writing and signed by the Director of Public Service and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase
in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $498,846.00, to be paid from Fund No. 20 SF 322, Request No.
34449.
Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 494-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract or contracts of for the
transfer
and
disposal
of
solid
waste, for the Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service, for a period of two years with two one-year
options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract or contracts in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements of the necessary for the transfer and disposal of
solid waste, including but not limited to bulk waste disposal, processing of recyclables and tire disposal,
and the provision, as the Board of
Control shall determine, of the necessary
landfill,
transfer
station
and/or material recovery facility
requirements, in the approximate
amount for each year of the term as
purchased
during
the
preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division

of Waste Collection and Disposal,
Department of Public Service. The
contract or contracts hereby authorized shall have an initial term of
two years. The City shall have two
one-year options, exercisable by the
Director of Public Service, to renew
and extend the term. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
of services as a single contract, or
by separate contracts for each or
any combination of said items as
the Board of Control shall determine.
Bids shall also be taken so as to
permit an award to be made for provision of such services citywide or
by separate contracts for the districts determined by the Director of
Public Service. Alternate bids for a
period less than the initial term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire period.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Service may require that each bid be
accompanied by a single bond securing both the execution of a contract
and the performance of the initial
one-year term of each contract. If a
single bond securing both execution
and performance is required by the
Director, it shall be substantially in
accordance with the form attached
hereto as Exhibit “A”. Each bond,

510

whether to secure the execution of
a contract, its performance, or both,
shall be in an amount determined by
the Director of Public Service. The
Director may also require that the
performance of each contract be
secured in any option year by a performance bond or bonds, each in an
amount determined by the Director.
Each bond submitted to secure the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be executed by
a surety authorized to do business
in the State of Ohio and shall be
acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 3. That the cost of such
contract
or
contracts
authorized
hereby shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
32025)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

March 21, 2001
BID GUARANTY AND
CONTRACT BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS, that we the ____________
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
(Name and Address)
as Principal and _____________________
(Name of Surety)
as Surety are hereby held and firmly bound unto the City of Cleveland,
hereinafter called the Obligee, in the
penal sum hereinafter stated, pertaining to the bid submitted by the
Principal
to
the
Obligee
on
____________________________ (date) to
undertake the project known ______
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
The penal sum referred to herein
shall be _____________________________
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
__________________________________. For
the payment of the penal sum well
and truly to be made, we hereby
jointly and severally bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns.
THE
CONDITION
OF
THE
ABOVE OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that
whereas the above named Principal
has submitted a bid on the above
referred project;
NOW, THEREFORE, if the Obligee accepts the bid of the Principal and the Principal fails to enter
into a proper contract in accordance
with the bid, plans, details, specifications, and bills of material; and in
the event the Principal pays to the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid and such larger amount for
which the Obligee may in good faith
contract with the next lowest and
best bidder to perform the work covered by the bid; or in the event the
Obligee does not award the contract
to the next lowest and best bidder
and resubmits the project for bidding, the Principal will pay the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid, or the costs in connection with
the resubmission, of printing new
contract documents, required advertising, and printing and mailing
notices
to
prospective
bidders,
whichever is less, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect. If
the Obligee accepts the bid of the
Principal and the Principal within
ten days after the awarding of the
contract and submitting to the Principal a contract for execution, enters
into a proper contract in accordance
with the bid, plans, details, specifications, and bills of material, which
said contract is made a part of this
bond the same as though set forth
herein; and
IF THE SAID Principal shall well
and faithfully perform each and
every condition of such contract;
and indemnify the Obligee against
all damage suffered by failure to
perform such contract according to
the provisions thereof and in accordance with the plans, details, specifications, and bills of material therefor; and shall pay all lawful claims
of subcontractors, materialmen, and

The City Record
laborers for labor performed and
materials furnished in the carrying
forward, performing, or completing
said contract; we agreeing and
assenting
that
this
undertaking
shall be for the benefit of any materialman or laborer having a just
claim as well as for the Obligee
herein; then this obligation shall be
void;
otherwise
the
same
shall
remain in full force and effect; it
being
expressly
understood
and
agreed that the liability of the Surety for any and all claims hereunder
shall in no event exceed the penal
amount of this obligation as herein
stated.
THE SAID Surety hereby stipulates and agrees that no modifications, omissions, or additions, in or
to the terms of said contract or in
or to the plans and specifications
therefor shall in any wise affect the
obligations of said Surety on this
bond, and it does hereby waive
notice of any such modifications,
omissions or additions to the terms
of the contract or to the work or to
the specifications.
SIGNED
AND
SEALED
this
day of ____________, 20___.
PRINCIPAL:

SURETY:

_______________

___________________

BY: __________

BY: ______________
Attorney-in-Fact

TITLE: _______
SURETY COMPANY ADDRESS:
_________________________________
Street
_________________________________
City
State
ZIP
SURETY AGENT’S ADDRESS:
_________________________________
Agency Name
_________________________________
Street
_________________________________
City
State
ZIP
“Exhibit A”
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 495-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2002 Federal Child Lead Poison
Prevention Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $350,000, from the
Ohio Department of Health, to conduct the 2002 Federal Child Lead
Poison Prevention Program, for the

511

11
purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 495-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation to
devote program income from first
and third party billings, estimated
at $60,000, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 496-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the
Criminal
Justice
Services
Agency for the Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program; and to enter into contracts
necessary to implement the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $651,391.00, from the
Criminal Justice Services Agency, to
conduct the Juvenile Accountability
Incentive Block Grant Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 496-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide a
cash match in the sum of $72,377,
payable from fund No. 01-600201639905, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if said extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

12
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Safety is hereby authorized to lease
office space at an east side location
and a west side location for the
implementation of the grant.
The
term of the lease or leases shall not
exceed the grant period and shall be
in an aggregate estimated annual
amount of $27,000.00.
That the lease or leases may
authorize the City to make improvements to the leased premises under
terms to be determined by the parties consistent with the purposes of
the grant.
That the lease or leases may provide for the City’s payment of appropriate utility and
other operating costs of the leased
premises.
That the lease or leases shall be
prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such authorized
terms and conditions as are required to protect the interests of the
City.
That the Director of Public Safety, the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such other documents and certificates, and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease or leases authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the lease of a maximum of
six (6) vehicles and for the lease of
equipment necessary for the implementation of the program, to be procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with the
Police Athletic League for professional services, as identified in the
grant
application,
necessary
to
implement
the
grant
authorized
herein.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
professional consultants or one or
more firms of professional consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to
provide professional services necessary to implement the program.
The selection of said consultant
or consultants for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Safety from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may
be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of
Public Safety for the purpose of
compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control.
The contract herein
authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Safety, and
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Section 8. That the costs for such
services, purchases and leases herein contemplated shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are cred-

The City Record
ited the proceeds of the grant
accepted pursuant to this ordinance
and from cash matching funds identified in this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 497-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Justice for
the 2000 Local Law Enforcement
Block Grant Program; and to enter
into contract for the purchase by
requirement contract of equipment,
supplies, data conversion and training needed to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $2,000,000, from the
U.S. Department of Justice, to conduct the 2000 Local law Enforcement Block Grant Program, for the
purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Safety is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application
for said grant, File No. 497-01-A,
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten
herein,
including
the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide a cash match in the sum
of $222,222, payable from Fund No.
10 SF 025, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the necessary items
of equipment, supplies, data conversion services and training needed to
implement
the
program,
as
described in the application. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than the grant
term may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the

512

March 21, 2001
entire term.
The cost of each contract shall be
charged against the fund or funds
to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this
ordinance
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify thereon the
amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and supplies pursuant to a
requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 498-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice, for the 2001 Cleveland Team
Approach
to
Violence
Against
Women Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $40,304.29, from the
United States Department of Justice,
OCJS, to conduct the 2001 Cleveland
Team Approach to Violence Against
Women Program, for the purposes
set forth in the application and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 498-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$13,434.76 from Fund No. 01-600201639905, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

March 21, 2001
Ord. No. 499-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the STEP 2001 Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $65,431.00, from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety, to
conduct the STEP 2001 Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 499-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 500-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the 2001 Caribbean/Gang
Task Force Program; and to enter
into contracts necessary to implement the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount of $86,373.00, from the U.S.
Department of Justice, to conduct
the
2001
Caribbean/Gang
Task
Force Program, for the purposes set
forth in the application and according thereto; that the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under said grant; and that said
funds be and they hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in
the application for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 500-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the amount
of $28,791.00, payable from Fund No.
01-600201-639905, is hereby approved
in all respects.

The City Record
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of the
grant authorized by this ordinance
for the necessary items of equipment needed to implement the program, as described in the application.
The cost of said contract is
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the grant term may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
The cost of each contract shall be
charged against the fund or funds
to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director and
from cash matching funds identified
in Section 2 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 501-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and improving Neff Park and
authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and improving Neff Park in Ward 11 of the City
of Cleveland for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties, in
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into a
contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a per unit basis

513

13
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
distinct component part of said contract may be treated as a separate
improvement and each or every
combination of such trades or components may be the subject if a separate contract upon a per unit basis.
Section 3. That an amount not to
exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars($100,000) for said improvement
hereby authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166, with such
other costs, if any, to be paid by
such funds as identified by the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, Request No.________.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 502-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation, and Properties to enter into
an agreement with Northeast Shores
Development Corporation to maintain and adopt certain real estate
belonging to the City.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Northeast Shores
Development Corporation to maintain and adopt certain real estate
belonging to the City, the North
Shore Collinwood Town Center gazebo, flagpole, and message board
through the use of Ward 11 Neighborhood Equity Funds in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing general recreation.
Section 2. Notwithstanding and as
an exception to Section 133.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1796 the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Northeast Shores Development
Corporation to maintain and adopt
the following real estate for general recreation purposes belonging to
the City of Cleveland at the triangle located at East 174th Street and
Lakeshore Boulevard.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.

14
Ord. No. 503-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and maintaining the North Shore
Collinwood Town Center at the triangle of East 174th Street and
Lakeshore Boulevard and authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing and maintaining the North Shore Collinwood
Town Center gazebo, flagpole and
message board at the triangle of
East 174th Street and Lakeshore
Boulevard in Ward 11 of the City of
Cleveland for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by the direct employment of the necessary labor and the purchase or
rental of the necessary supplies and
materials for the making of such
improvements,
with
a
separate
accounting as to each improvement
so made.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
for each and all of the items compromising the supplies and materials for said improvement, including
the rental of the necessary equipment, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a per unit basis for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 3. That an amount not to
exceed Forty Six Thousand Dollars
($46,000) for said improvement hereby authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166, with such other
costs, if any, to be paid by such
funds as identified by the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, Request No.______.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 504-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and improving McGowan Park,
Crossburn Park, Jefferson Park and
the Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex and authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and improving McGowan Park, Crossburn Park,
Jefferson Park and the Maplewood
Ball Diamond Complex in Ward 20
of the City of Cleveland for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, in contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into a
contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a per unit basis
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
distinct component part of said contract may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each or every
combination of such trades or components may be the subject if a separate contract upon a per unit basis.
Section 3. That an amount not to
exceed
Two
Hundred
Nineteen
Thousand and Eight-Hundred Seventy-Seven Dollars ($219,877) for
said improvement hereby authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
166, with such other costs, if any, to
be paid by such funds as identified
by the Department of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties,
Request
No.________.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 505-01.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2249 and 2243 East 97th
Street to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

514

March 21, 2001
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 121-16-051
and
121-16-053,
as
more
fully
described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 121-16-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 5 feet of Sublot No. 50, all
of Sublot No. 52 and the Northerly 5
feet of Sublot No. 54 in H. Haines’
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 52 and parts of Sublots
Nos. 50 and 54 together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 40
feet on the Easterly side of East
97th Street (formerly South Logan
Avenue),
and
extending
back
between parallel lines 153 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 121-16-053
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 25 feet of Sublot No. 46
and the Northerly 15 feet of Sublot
No. 48 in H. Haines Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 409, as shown by the recorded plat of said allotment in Volume
4 of Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Said parts of Sublots Nos. 46 and
48 together form a parcel of land
having a frontage of 40 feet on the
Easterly side of East 97th Street
(formerly
Branch
Avenue,
also
known as South Logan Avenue) and
extending back between parallel
lines 153 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary inter-

March 21, 2001
ests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 506-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 949-2000,
passed May 22, 2000, as amended by
Ordinance No. 215-01, passed _______,
to authorize the Director of Community Development to enter into a
grant agreement with the Euclid –
St. Clair Development Corporation to
conduct an impact study related to
the Water Tower Park site on Coit
Road, through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 949-2000, passed May 22,
2000, as amended by Ordinance No.
215-01, passed __________, is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with the Euclid – St. Clair
Development Corporation to conduct
an impact study related to the
Water Tower Park site on Coit
Road, through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 949-2000, passed May 22,
2000, as amended by Ordinance No.
215-01, passed __________, is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 507-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 61st Street to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands

The City Record
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-075 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland.
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being as being
Sublot No. 60 in W.S. and R.W.
Chamberlain’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 61st Street
(formerly
Lodge
Avenue);
and
extending back between parallel
lines 160 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-078 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
63 in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-079 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 6. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in W.S. and M. W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One

515

15
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335 and Lot
No. 334, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28
of Cuyahoga County Records, said
Sublot No. 64 has a frontage of 40
feet on the Westerly side of East
61st Street (formerly Lodge Street)
and extends back between parallel
lines, 160 feet as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-030 as
more fully described to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc., or designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 61st Street and extending back
of equal width 160 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-29-083 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
68 in Chamberlain Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 61st Street
and extending back of equal width,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-086 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-086
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 34.28 feet of Sublot No. 71
in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One

16
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and
335, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 34.28 feet front on the Westerly side of East 61st Street (formerly Lodge Avenue) and extending back of equal width 160 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-088 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 72 in the Chamberlain
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3, Page 28 of Cuyahoga
County Records and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 61st Street (formerly Lodge
Avenue) at the Southeasterly corner
of said Sublot No. 72; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 72, 160.04 feet to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 72, 30.77 feet to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Joseph
Rosenberg
and
Enetta
Rosenberg by deed dated December
2, 1913, and recorded in Volume 1498,
Page
404
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to Joseph and Enetta Rosenberg
about 160 feet to the Westerly line
of East 61st Street; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of East
61st Street, 34.19 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 16. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 17. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the

The City Record
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 508-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1575-2000,
passed September 25, 2000, relating
to the Director of Community Development expending funds for the
operation of the Your Home Program and to enter into contracts
under that Program; to supplement
said ordinance by adding new Section 6; and to renumber existing Section 6 to new Section 7.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1575-2000, passed September 25, 2000, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 4. That except for the thirty seven loans that are ready to proceed to closing as identified at the
September 25, 2000 Finance committee, and which may proceed to closing upon enactment of this ordinance, all other loans under this
Program shall have the following
requirements:
(1) That the first mortgage rate
shall not be greater than 2% over
the then prevailing first mortgage
market rates, as determined by the
Director
of
Community
Development; and
(2) That non-profit agencies shall
be utilized for the rehabilitation
work on the homes that are subject
to this Program; and
(3) That for-profit developers may
utilize this Program with the condition that a local community development corporation approves the
project.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 1575-2000, passed
September
25,
2000,
is
hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 15752000, passed September 25, 2000, is
hereby supplemented by adding new
Section 6 to read as follows:
Section 6. That no money shall be
expended pursuant to this ordinance
until the requirements of Chapter
176 of the Ohio Revised Code have
been complied with.
Section 4. That existing Section 6
of Ordinance No. 1575-2000, passed
September 25, 2000, is hereby renumbered to new “Section 7.”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

516

March 21, 2001
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 509-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and
located
at
12923
Milligan
Avenue to Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 020-09-062,
020-09-063 and 020-09-064, as more
fully described below, to BellairePuritas Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. Nos. 020-09-062, 020-09-063
and 020-09-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 1 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
proposed Milligan Avenue, S.W., 45
feet wide, said Southerly line being
parallel to and distance 154 feet
Southerly, measured at right angles
from the Northerly line of land conveyed to The Guarantee Title and
Trust Company, Trustee, by Deed
dated July 1, 1902 and recorded in
Volume 844, Page 407 of Cuyahoga
County Records at a point 170 feet
Easterly,
measured
along
said
Southerly line, from its point of
intersection with the Easterly line
of West 130th Street, (formerly Settlement Road) 60 feet wide, thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of proposed Milligan Avenue, S.W.,
105 feet, thence Southerly on a line
parallel to said Easterly line of
West 130th Street, 109 feet, thence
Westerly on a line parallel to said
Southerly line of proposed Milligan
Avenue,
S.E.,
105
feet,
thence
Northerly 109 feet to the place of
beginning, and being further known
as Sublot Nos. 157, 158 and 159 in
proposed Drexel Park Avenue Allotment of part of Original Rockport
Township Section No. 1, be the same

March 21, 2001
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 510-01.
By Councilmen Willis, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted and implemented procedures
under Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-07-112 as

The City Record
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-07-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 40 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 26 in Burrows and
Putt’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 364,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 16 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 124th Street, (formerly Dickenson Avenue), and extending back
between lines 125 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-005 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 4 in the Eddy Road Allotment Company’s Eddy Road Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 372 and 373, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 28 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
Eddy Road, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 4; thence
Northerly along said easterly line of
Eddy Road N.E. 41.91 feet to the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 4; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 4,
120 feet; thence Southerly parallel
with the Easterly line of said Sublot
No. 4, 40 feet to the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 4; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 4, 107.50 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highway.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-006 as
more fully described to Northeastern
Neighborhood Development Corporation or designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 5 in Eddy Road Allotment
Company’s “Eddy Road Subdivision”
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 372 and 373, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 28
of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records
and
bounded
and
described as follows:

517

17
Beginning, on the Northerly line
of Woodside Avenue, N.E., at a point
90.13 feet Westerly (measured along
said Northerly line) from the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Woodside Avenue, N.E., 95
feet to the Easterly line of Eddy
Road, N.E.; thence Northerly along
said Easterly line of Eddy Road,
N.E., 41.91 feet to the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 5; thence
Easterly, along the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 5, 107.5 feet; thence
Southerly 40 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more of less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-008 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
99 in the Eddy Road Allotment Company’s Eddy Road Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 372 and 373, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 28 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 41.91 feet front on
the Easterly side of Eddy Road and
extending back 162.01 feet on the
Northerly line, 149.51 feet on the
Southerly line and having a rear line
of 40 feet, as appear by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-048 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Eddy Road Allotment Company’s Eddy Road Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 372 and 373 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 28 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 47 feet front on
the Northerly side of Woodside
Avenue, N.E., 187.03 feet deep on the
Easterly line, 188.55 feet deep on the
Westerly line and 47.02 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-19-092 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

18
P. P. No. 110-19-092
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
37 in the C.S. Realty Company’s Subdivision No. 3 of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 371, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 54 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of
Whitmore
Avenue,
N.E.,
and extends back
between parallel lines 138.45 feet deep
on the Westerly line, 138.42 feet deep
on the Easterly line, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 14. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 15. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 511-01.
By Councilmen Willis, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance declaring the property located at 1395
East 120th Street, 1399 East 120th
Street, and 11721 Moulton Avenue
blighted premises pursuant to Section 324.01 through 324.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976; and, to further the public purpose of creating housing, authorizing the Director of Community
Development to acquire the blighted
premises through the use of Ward 9
Neighborhood Equity Funds and to
sell said premises to Northeast
Neighborhood Development Corporation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to the
requirements
of
Sections
324.01
through 324.16, inclusive, of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 (“Codified Ordinances”),
including obtaining the consent of
the Council member in whose ward
the premises are located, the Director of Community Development has
hereby found and determined that
Permanent Parcel Numbers 120-05120, 120-05-084, 120-10-111, located at
1395 East 120th Street, 1399 East
120th Street and 11712 Moulton
Avenue owned by First Mortgage
Corporation of Cleveland, Reginald
Groves,
and
Sharon
Elizabeth
Owens are blighted premises, as
defined by Sections 324.03 of said
Codified Ordinances, because the
blighted premises has been condemned pursuant to the Codified
Ordinances. Furthermore, it is the
opinion of the Director that it is
necessary, to further the public purpose of creating housing, for the
City of Cleveland to acquire the
blighted premises through the use
of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity
Funds, because the owners of the
blighted premises have not responded to a lawful order by the City to
take action to eliminate its recurrence within 30 days after due
notice thereof.
Section 2. That a public hearing
was held in accordance and compliance with the requirements of Section 324.08 and 324.09 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Section 3. That, based upon the
factors set forth in Section 1 hereinabove and in compliance with the
public notice requirements set forth
in Section 2 hereinabove, this Council, as required by Sections 324.10
and 324.11, of the Codified Ordinances, hereby finds and determines
that Permanent Parcel Numbers 12005-120, 120-05-084, 120-10-111, located
at 1395 East 120th Street, 1399 East
120th Street and 11712 Moulton
Avenue are blighted premises as
defined in Section 324.03 of the Codified Ordinances, and that acquisition of the premises is necessary in
order to eliminate the blight and
prevent its recurrence.
Section 4. That the cost of said
acquisition shall be in an amount
not to exceed $5,500.00 and shall
be paid from Fund No. 10 Subfund
166.
Section 5. That based upon the
findings and declarations set forth
in Sections 1 through 4 of this ordinance, the Director of Community
Development is hereby authorized to
negotiate the acquisition of the
blighted premises from the owners
and sell said premises to Northeast
Neighborhood Development Corporation, pursuant to Sections 324.11 and
324.12 of the Codified Ordinances.
Said blighted premises are more
fully described as follows:
1395 East 120th Street
Permanent Parcel No. 120-05-120
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
388, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the East
line of East 120th Street (formerly
Oakland Avenue, 40 feet wide) and
the East line which is 168 feet East
of the West line of land in said lot
owned by Lyman B. Beers and

518

March 21, 2001
which beginning point is 482.70 feet
North of the South line of said
Beers’ land;
Thence North 89° 59' East 120
feet;
Thence North parallel with the
East line of said Avenue, 45 feet;
Thence Westerly parallel with the
Southerly
line
of
land
hereby
described, 120 feet to the East line
of said East 120th Street;
Thence South along the East line
of said East 120th Street, 45 feet to
the place of beginning and being
further known as the Westerly 120
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
23 in said Lyman B. Beers’ proposed
allotment of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 388.
1399 East 120th Street
Permanent Parcel No. 120-05-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
388, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Moulton Avenue, N.E., (formerly
Moulton Street), as its point of intersection with the Easterly line of
East 120th Street, (formerly Oakland
Avenue);
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Moulton Avenue N.E., 50
feet;
Thence Northerly parallel with
said Easterly line of East 120th
Street, 45 feet;
Thence Westerly parallel with
said
Northerly
line
of
Moulton
Avenue N.E., 50 feet to said Easterly line of East 120th Street;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of East 120th Street, 45 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
11712 Moulton Avenue
Permanent Parcel No. 120-10-111
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
43 in H.C. Ford’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 387 and 388, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
47
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Southerly
side
of
Moulton
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal width 125 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 6. That the Mayor is hereby authorized to convey by official
Deed or Deeds title to the blighted
premises at a price to be determined
by the Board of Control.
Section 7. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into and execute
a project agreement on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with Northeast
Neighborhood Development Corporation for the redevelopment of said
properties
as
new
housing,
as
defined in Chapter 324 of the Codified Ordinances, of the blighted
premises.
Said project agreement
shall be substantially in the form of
that contained in Council File No.
511-01-A.
Section 8. That the Mayor, Director of Law and the Director of
Community Development are hereby authorized to execute such certifications and documents, and to
take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate in connection with the carrying out of
the terms of the project agreement,
and the activities contemplated by

March 21, 2001
Chapter 324 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 512-01.
By Mayor White and Councilman
Lewis.
An emergency ordinance excusing
the Reverend Kenneth W. Chalker
from the requirement of Section 74
of the Charter.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to the
power granted by Section 74 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland to
this Council, this Council hereby
excuses
Reverend
Kenneth
W.
Chalker, from the requirement that
he become a bona fide resident of
the City of Cleveland within six
months of his respective appointment to the Fair Campaign Finance
Commission.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Legislation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 513-01.
By Councilman Jackson (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of East 57th Street, Tivoli Court
S.E., East 59th Place and Chadakoin
Court S.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
portions of East 57th Street, Tivoli
Court S.E., East 59th Place and
Chadakoin Court S.E. as hereinafter
described, and;
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and described as being all
those portions of:
CHADAKOIN COURT S.E. (16.00
feet wide), and its Northerly and

The City Record
Southerly turnouts extending Easterly from that portion of East 57th
Street (16.00 feet wide) vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance Number 888-68, to its
intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of
Sublot Number 123 in the L.M. Southern & W.S. Chamberlain Subdivision
as shown in Volume 11, Page 42 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
EAST 57th STREET (16.00 feet
wide) extending Northerly from the
Northerly line of Thackery Avenue
S.E. (70.00 feet wide) to the Southerly line of Longfellow Avenue S.E.
(70.00 feet wide).
TIVOLI COURT S.E. (16.00 feet
wide), and its Northerly and Southerly turnouts extending Easterly
about 250.00 feet from the Easterly
line of East 57th Street (16.00 feet
wide).
EAST 59th PLACE (10.00 feet
wide), and its Easterly and Westerly
turnouts
extending
Northerly
from the Northerly line of Thackeray Avenue S.E. (10.00 feet wide) to
the Southerly line of Tivoli Court
S.E. (16.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 514-01.
By Councilmen Patmon, Melena
and Cimperman (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at East 103rd Street to
Glenville Development Corporation
or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 108-11-084
and
108-11-085,
as
more
fully
described below, to Glenville Development Corporation or designee.

519

19
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-11-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 48 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 20 in John Crowell’s
Re-Subdivision of Sublots Nos. 3 and
4 in Peter Miller’s Estate of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
361, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Re-Subdivision in Volume 4
of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being a parcel of
land 48 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 103rd Street, N.E., and
extending back of equal width 204.5
feet deep, be the same more of less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 108-11-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
19 and the Northerly 2 feet of Sublot
No. 20 in John Crowell’s Subdivision
of Sublots Nos. 3 and 4 of Peter
Miller’s Estate of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 361 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
31
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said Sublot No. 19 and part
of Sublot No. 20 together form a parcel of land having frontage of 52
feet on the Easterly side of East
103rd Street (formerly John Street)
and extends back of equal width 204
feet 6 inches as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

20
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 515-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Resolution No. 462-01, passed March
12, 2001, concerning the Gardner
Evergreen Project.
Whereas, Resolution No. 462-01,
passed March 12, 2001, did not include the entire scope of the Gardner Evergreen Project and Council
has chosen to adopt a supplemental
resolution in support of this project;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Resolution No. 46201, passed March 12, 2001, is hereby
repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 516-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting NAMI Cuyahoga County in its
efforts to have the proposed state
budget increased to assist the mentally ill and their families; and urging the State General Assembly to
provide additional funding to assist
the mentally ill.
Whereas, the primary purpose of
government is to represent the interests and needs of its citizens and to
allocate resources to address and
provide for those interests and
needs, particularly for the most vulnerable members of our society; and
Whereas, the physical safety and
well-being of our citizens is of paramount importance to the Cleveland
City Council; and
Whereas, an integral component
of physical safety and well-being is
improving the quality of life for persons with mental illness and their
families through support, education
and
advocacy
and
support
of
research into the causes and treatments of mental illness; and
Whereas, the proposed budget for
the state of Ohio allocates less
money for mental health than a
decade ago; and
Whereas, this Council is supportive of the efforts of NAMI Cuyahoga
County, Cuyahoga County’s voice on
mental illness, to have the proposed
budget increased to provide more

The City Record
support, education and advocacy
into causes and treatments of mental illness; and
Whereas, this Council urges the
State General Assembly to examine
the proposed budget to find additional funds to assist the mentally
ill and their families; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland supports NAMI
Cuyahoga County in its efforts to
have the proposed state budget
increased to provide more support,
education and advocacy into causes
and treatments of mental illness and
urges the State General Assembly to
examine the proposed budget to find
additional funds to assist the mentally ill and their families.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 517-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution supporting the proposal by Park 99 Limited Partnership for the development
and renovation of affordable housing through use of housing tax credits from the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing credits for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio
using
a
competitive
proposal
process; and
Whereas, Park 99 Limited Partnership is proposing to renovate
Park 85, a 35 unit apartments building at 8500 Superior Avenue in the
Hough neighborhood in Ward 7 of
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, twenty percent (20%) of
the units will be market rate units
and eighty percent (80%) will be
low-income units; and
Whereas, Park 85 will serve the
special needs population consisting
of households that are extremely
low income, with incomes at or
below thirty-five percent of the area
median income; and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland supports the proposal
of Park 99 Limited Partnership to
develop this affordable housing for
the benefit of the citizens of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the proposal of Park 99 Limited Partnership to renovate Park 85, a thirtyfive unit apartment building located

520

March 21, 2001
at 8500 Superior Avenue through use
of housing tax credits from the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 518-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution in support of the Slavic Village Development proposal to the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency to receive housing
credits to redevelop the Atlas Building and the construction of a new
building to create 29 units of affordable and market rate housing in the
Slavic Village Broadway Avenue
Historic Main Street District.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing credits for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Slavic Village Development is proposing to redevelop the
Atlas Building and the construction
of a new building to create 29 units
of affordable and market rate housing in the Slavic Village Broadway
Avenue Historic Main Street District; and
Whereas, 20 of these units will
serve low income persons, and 9 will
be made available at market rate;
and
Whereas, 6 of these units will
serve a special needs population,
namely persons with a mobility or
sensory impairment; and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland supports the proposal
of Slavic Village Development to
develop this affordable housing for
the benefit of the citizens of Cleveland; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the proposal of Slavic Village Development
to provide affordable housing for
the Citizens of Cleveland through
the use of housing tax credits from
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of the resolution to the Executive Director of Slavic Village
Development.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

March 21, 2001
Res. No. 519-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 10400 Chester Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Director of Liquor Control of
an application for the issuance of a
C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No.
00522680010, Bernard Adams, DBA
Adams Service, 10400 Chester Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit
No.
00522680010,
Bernard
Adams, DBA Adams Service, 10400
Chester Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44106
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 520-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution supporting the proposal by Gardner Evergreen, L.P. for the development and
construction of affordable housing
through use of housing tax credits
from the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing credits for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Gardner Evergreen, L.P.
plans to construct 7 town homes to
be located adjacent to 12003 Ashbury
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio and 6 town
homes to be located at 991 East
123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio in the
Glenville/Foresthills neighborhoods
of Cleveland, Ohio, one (1) single
family home at 645 Eddy Road,
Cleveland, Ohio and one (1) single
family home at 1359 East 111th
Street,
Cleveland,
Ohio
and
to
acquire and rehabilitate a 10 unit
multifamily building located at 12003
Ashbury Road, Cleveland, Ohio (the
Gardner Evergreen Project); and
Whereas, twenty percent (20%) of
the twenty-five (25) units will be set
aside for the special needs population of households at or below thirty-five percent of the Area Median
Gross Income; and
Whereas, thirty percent (30%) of
the units will have market rate
rents and the remaining units will
have rents affordable to those at
forty-four percent (44%) of the
AMGI; and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland supports the proposal
of Gardner Evergreen, L.P. to develop this affordable housing for the
benefit of the citizens of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the proposal of Gardner Evergreen, L.P. to
provide affordable housing for the
citizens of Cleveland through use of
housing tax credits from the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
two copies of the resolution to the
Executive Director of Northeastern
Neighborhood Development Corporation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

521

21
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 338-97.
By Councilmen Rybka, Willis and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to enact
Section 337.081 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and
to amend Section 335.01 of said Codified Ordinances, as amended by
Ordinance No. 552-96, passed June 10,
1996, and Section 335.02, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 2204-A-48, passed
December 19, 1949, relating to downtown residential districts.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Legislation, Finance; when amended as follows:
1.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
337.081,(a), line 3, strike “multi-family housing” and insert in lieu thereof “residential uses,”.
2.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
337.081(b), line 4, strike “for non
transient
occupancy,
dormitory
rooms,” and insert in lieu thereof “,
hotel
rooms,
dormitory
rooms,
live/work space,”.
3.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
337.081(c)(8), line 1, before “accessory” insert “parking and other”.
4.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
337.081(e), strike lines 4, 5, and 6 in
their entirety, and insert in lieu
thereof “plus the minimum number
of parking spaces that would be
required
for
any
non-residential
floor area, if such property were
subject to the parking requirements
of this zoning code.”.
5. In Section 1, at Section 337.081,
insert new division (j) to read as
follows:
“(j) Signs. In a Downtown Residential District, signs shall be permitted as in a General Retail District.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 1114-2000.
By Councilmen Johnson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Grand, Tennyson and
Buckeye Roads to Allegheny West
Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on Community and
Economic
Development,
Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. Strike Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and
6 in their entirety; and renumber
existing Sections 7 and 8 to new
“Section 1” and “Section 2”, respectively.
2. In existing Section 7, line 3,
strike “in Section 8”; and in existing
Section 8, line 1, strike “Section 7
of”.
3. Strike Sections 9 and 10 in their
entirety.
4. Renumber existing Sections 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20,
respectively, to new “Section 3”,
“Section 4”, “Section 5”, “Section 6”,
“Section 7”, “Section 8”, “Section 9”,
“Section 10”, “Section 11” and “Section 12”.

22
5. In existing Section 11, line 3;
strike “in Section 12”; and in existing Section 12, line 1, strike “Section
11 of”.
6. In existing Section 13, line 3;
strike “in Section 14”; and in existing Section 14, line 1, strike “Section
13 of”.
7. In existing Section 15, line 3;
strike “in Section 16”; and in existing Section 16, line 1, strike “Section
15 of”.
8. In existing Section 17, line 3;
strike “in Section 18”; and in existing Section 18, line 1, strike “Section
17 of”.
9. In existing Section 19, line 3;
strike “in Section 20”; and in existing Section 20, line 1, strike “Section
19 of”.
10. Insert new Sections 13 and 14
to read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-063 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-22-063
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
96 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416, 423
and 424, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 50 feet front on the Westerly
side of Tennyson Road, S.E., and
extending back of equal width 125
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
11. Renumber existing Sections 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, respectively, to new “Section 15”, “Section
16”, “Section 17”, “Section 18”, “Section 19”, “Section 20”, “Section 21”,
and “Section 22”.
12. In existing Section 21, line 3;
strike “in Section 22”; and in existing Section 22, line 1, strike “Section
21 of”.
13. In existing Section 23, line 3;
strike “in Section 24”; and in existing Section 24, line 1, strike “Section
23 of”.
14. In existing Section 25, line 3;
strike “in Section 26”; and in existing Section 26, line 1, strike “Section
25 of”.
15. In existing Section 27, line 3;
strike “in Section 28”; and in existing Section 28, line 1, strike “Section
27 of”.
16. Strike existing Sections 29 and
30 in their entirety.
17. Renumber existing Sections 31,
32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, respectively, to
new “Section 23”, “Section 24”, “Section 25 ”, “ Section 26 ” “ Section 27 ” and
“Section 28”.
18. In existing Section 31, line 3;
strike “in Section 32”; and in existing Section 32, line 1, strike “Section
31 of”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 1400-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1129-2000, passed June 19, 2000,

The City Record
relating to an Encroachment Permit
on West 6th Street for the Sanctuary Diner.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1800-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 513.01 to 513.11 and
513.99 relating to the issuance of
temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits for outdoor restaurants.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 513.03, after division
(g), insert new division (h) to read
as follows:
“(h) If applicable, a copy of the
applicant’s liquor permit, expansion
permit, and a complete copy of the
expansion permit application submitted to the Division of Liquor Control.”.
2. In Section 513.03, re-letter existing division (h) to new division
“(i)” and existing division (i) to
new division “(j)”.
3. In Section 513.04, strike lines 2
and 3 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“An application for a permit shall
be accompanied by a fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
outdoor restaurant for which a permit is desired that serves non-alcoholic beverages and a fee of three
hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00)
for each outdoor restaurant for
which a permit is desired that
serves alcoholic beverages.
If the
applicant is”.
4. In Section 513.04, at the end of
line 19, insert the following:
“The processing of a complete
application shall not take more than
ninety (90) days and in the event
such application is not processed
within ninety (90) days, the applicant shall be entitled to a refund of
the permit fee.”.
5. In Section 513.04, strike lines
25-28 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“application. The permit renewal
fee shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each outdoor restaurant
that serves non-alcoholic beverages
and one hundred and fifty dollars
($150.00) for each outdoor restaurant
that serves alcoholic beverages. If
there are changes to the application,
a new application must be made in
accordance with this application and
the appropriate permit fee shall
accompany such application.”.
6. In Section 513.06, strike line 2
in its entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following: “Permits shall
be issued in such a manner that
they are distinguishable from liquor
permits issued by the State of Ohio
and shall be posted in a conspicuous location in a”.
7. In Section 513.06, in line 4,
strike “notice” and insert “permit”
and in line 13, add a new division
(d) to read as follows:
“(d)
A
statement
indicating
whether the permittee is authorized
by the State of Ohio to serve alcohol in the outdoor restaurant.”.

522

March 21, 2001
8. In Section 513.06, re-number
existing division (d) to new division
“(e)” and existing division (e) to
new division “(f)”.
9. In Section 513.07, strike division
(c) in its entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
“(c) An outdoor restaurant located in the Central Business District
shall not operate earlier than 6:00
a.m. nor later than 12:00 midnight.
An outdoor restaurant located in
any district other than the Central
Business District shall not operate
earlier than 6:00 a.m. nor later than
11:00 p.m.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 2096-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of painting the
Kirtland Intake Crib, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract for the making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. Add a new Section 3 to read as
follows:
“Section 3. That, if the lowest
responsible
bid
for
the
public
improvement
authorized
herein
exceeds $750,000.00, the Director of
Public Utilities shall notify the President of Council and the Chairman
of the Public Utilities Committee of
such fact.”
2. Renumber existing “Section 3”
to new “Section 4” and existing “Section 4” to new “Section 5”.
3. In existing Section 3, line 2,
after “authorized” insert “shall not
exceed $825,000.00 and”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 2108-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of laying and
re-laying and repairing sidewalks,
handicap ramps, curbing, driveway
aprons, median strips, intersections,
bridge
approaches,
utility
box
adjustments, and/or castings, and
miscellaneous appurtenances on the
eastern, western, northern, southern
and downtown districts of the City
and authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into one or more
requirement contracts for the making of said improvements through
December 31, 2002.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance,
when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 7, after “Council,” insert the following:
“including, but not limited to, Resolution
No. 813-99, adopted by this Council
on May 3, 1999, and Resolution No.
140-01, requiring the laying, re-laying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or
castings on the following streets
and any associated corner properties:
Catalpa Road - North of Euclid
Avenue;

March 21, 2001
Cleveland Road - North of St. Clair
Avenue;
Creekview - Nottingham Road to
east end;
Dillewood - 176th Street to east
end;
East 176th Street - Villaview to
Nottingham Road;
East 177th Street - Villaview to
Nottingham Road;
Nottingham Road - Villaview to
Lakeshore Boulevard;
Shelton Road - Nottingham Road
to east end;
Tiverton Road - Nottingham Road
to east end;
West 93rd Street - Madison Avenue
to Willard Avenue;
Ashbury Avenue - East Boulevard
to Lakeview Road;
Woodhaven- Ridge Road to West
63rd Street; and
West 59th Street - Memphis to
Ridgeview,”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 82-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various pool chemicals,
for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 123-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on scattered
sites to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 26 to read as
follows:
“Section 26. That the house and
site designs shall be reviewed by
the City Planning Commission after
the conveyance of the above-mentioned properties.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 26 to
new “Section 27.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 124-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept
grants from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the CDBG Year 27 pursuant to Title I of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974,
for the 2001 Federal HOME Grant
Program, Emergency Shelter Program, and the Housing Opportunities
for Persons with AIDS Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 126-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 125.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as

The City Record
amended by Ordinance No. 595-2000,
passed October 23, 2000, relating to
the Law Director’s powers and duties.
Approved by Director of Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 285-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of towel and linen service,
for the various divisions of City
government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 430-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of the First Alley North of
Quincy between East 79 and East 82
Streets hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 88-01.
By Councilman Britt (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Reserve Court N.E.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on Public Service, City Planning;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1806-2000.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron,
Lewis and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to transfer the Division of Traffic Engineering from the Department of
Public Safety to the Department of
Public Service by supplementing the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections
131.151 and 131.152 thereof; to repeal
Sections 135.11 and 135.12 thereof;
and to amend Sections 403.03 and
403.06 of said codified ordinances, as
amended
by
various
ordinances,
relating to the Duties of the Division of Traffic Engineering and the
Commissioner thereof.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1874-2000.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into contract with the Greater
Cleveland Roundtable for diversity
management training for field training officers and recruits, for the
Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety.

523

23
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2102-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair various materials and supplies handling
equipment, for the Divisions of
Water, Water Pollution Control and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period not
to exceed two years.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2104-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair treelawns and landscape maintenance for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 24-01.
By Councilmen White, Polensek,
Rybka, Brady, Britt, Cimperman,
Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Lewis, Melena,
O’Malley, Patmon, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Willis.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 185.022 thereof, relating
to use of domestic steel.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 128-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain various types of heavy duty construction
equipment, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 129-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by requirement
contract of the rental of large capacity trucks with operators, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 130-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of automotive and truck
oils, lubricants and solvents, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 131-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain mowers and cutting equipment, for the

24
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 132-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of equipment and vehicle
batteries, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 133-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of tires, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 134-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of gasoline, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 135-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of tire repair road service,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 167-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
HAB Manufacturing to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition of
machinery and equipment and for
safety upgrades and improvements
to the existing equipment of Scottish Industries, located at 1720 Fall
Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 169-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 1947-98, passed December 14, 1998, relating to the public improvement of installing detention tank piping and making sewer
improvements in the Arbor/Taft
area.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Director of Public Safety to accept
the loaned equipment and supplies
as a gift after expiration of the loan
agreement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 219-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Economic
Development and Community Development to enter into Neighborhood
Development Investment Fund contracts with Fries & Schuele, Ltd
and Carrol Development, Ltd. to
provide
economic
development
assistance to partially finance the
rehabilitation
of
the
Fries
&
Schuele Building and the construction of a mixed-use condominium
and parking structure adjacent to
the Fries & Schuele Building, located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 222-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into contract without competitive
bidding with Oracle Corporation for
the purchase of technical support
services for certain Oracle computer
products, for the Department of
Finance.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 312-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Fries and
Schuele, Ltd. to provide for a ten
year abatement for certain real
estate taxes as an incentive to redevelop the Fries and Schuele Building
at 1948 West 25th Street located in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

March 21, 2001
the Mayor’s Appointments
Fair Housing Board.

to

the

We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter
wherein
he
names
his
appointment to the Fair Housing
Board:
Michael Doud
The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Dona Brady, Chairman
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron
Joseph T. Jones
Zachary Reed
File No. 473-01-A.
March 16, 2001
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of
the Mayor’s Appointments to the
Fair Housing Board.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter
wherein
he
names
his
appointment to the Fair Housing
Board:
Ruben Mendiola
The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Dona Brady, Chairman
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron
Joseph T. Jones
Zachary Reed
File No. 473-01-A.

THIRD READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 2125-2000.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution urging
the General Assembly of the State
of Ohio to abolish the “five minute
rule” set forth in state election law,
R.C. Section 3505.23, and further urging the Cuyahoga County Board of
Elections and the General Assembly
of the State of Ohio to prohibit the
use of “butterfly” ballots in Cuyahoga County.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

March 16, 2001
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of
the Mayor’s Appointments to the
Fair Housing Board.
We have before us the Mayor’s Letter wherein he names his appointment to the Fair Housing Board:
Doris Honsa

MOTION
Without objection, Council reverted back to Communications to consider the Mayor’s Appointments to
the Fair Housing Board.

The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee

Ord. No. 176-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into a loan agreement with
the United States Department of
Defense for equipment and supplies
loaned to the City in conjunction
with the City’s Domestic Preparedness Program; and to authorize the

File No. 473-01-A.
March 16, 2001
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of

524

Dona Brady, Chairman
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron
Joseph T. Jones
Zachary Reed
A roll call ensued. Without objection, the Mayor’s Appointments to
the
Fair
Housing
Board
were
approved. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

The City Record

March 21, 2001
Those voting yea: Councilmen
Polensek, Brady, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson,
Johnson, Lewis, O’Malley, Patmon,
Reed, Rybka, Westbrook, White,
Willis.
Absent: Councilman Britt.
Not answering roll call: Councilmen Jones, Melena and Sweeney.
MOTION
By Councilman Cimperman and
seconded by Councilman Melena and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absence of Councilmember Patricia
J. Britt be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
to meet on Monday, March 26, 2001
at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 338-97.
By Councilmen Rybka, Willis and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to enact
Section 337.081 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and
to amend Section 335.01 of said Codified Ordinances, as amended by
Ordinance No. 552-96, passed June 10,
1996, and Section 335.02, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 2204-A-48, passed
December 19, 1949, relating to downtown residential districts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 337.081 to read as follows:
Section 337.081 Downtown Residential (DR) District
(a) Purpose. A Downtown Residential (DR) District is established
to reserve suitably-located sites for
development or retention of residential uses, supplemented by compatible retail or office uses, within the
downtown area of the City of Cleveland. Reservation of such sites for
residential
use
is
intended
to
strengthen the economy of the City’s
central business district by supplementing the demand for retail and
entertainment uses, particularly during evening and weekend hours.
Establishment of a downtown residential
zoning
district
is
also
intended to protect residential uses
in the downtown area from detrimental effects of incompatible uses.
(b) Definition of Residential Use.
For purposes of this section, the
term “residential use” shall refer to

dwelling units, hotel rooms, dormitory rooms, live/work space, and all
hallways and other common areas
serving such units or rooms.
(c) Permitted Uses. In a Downtown Residential (DR) District, permitted uses shall be limited to the
following, provided that at least
fifty-one percent (51%) of all floor
area devoted to main uses in each
main building or complex of main
and accessory buildings shall be in
residential use, as defined in division (b) of this section:
(1) residential uses: including
“Class A” multiple dwellings, townhouse buildings and dormitories,
(2) professional, business, governmental, institutional and medical
offices,
(3) restaurants, taverns and other
eating establishments,
(4) retail stores and retail services, except as prohibited in division (d) of this section,
(5) theaters, nightclubs, dance
halls, bowling alleys, skating rinks
and other places of entertainment
and recreation, except as prohibited
in division (d) of this section,
(6) banks and other financial service establishments, copying and
printing services, employment agencies, and other business service
establishments, except as prohibited
in division (d) of this section,
(7) museums, libraries, galleries,
schools, places of worship, daycare
centers, and other cultural and institutional uses, not for correctional
purposes,
(8) parking and other accessory
uses permitted in Multi-Family and
General Retail Districts, and rooftop antennae and associated equipment for transmission or reception,
(9) uses similar to those permitted with respect to the type of goods
sold, the type of services offered,
hours of operation, and effects on
nearby residential uses.
(d) Prohibited Uses. All uses not
listed as permitted nor determined
to be a similar use are prohibited.
In addition, the following uses are
specifically prohibited in Downtown
Residential (DR) Districts:
(1) uses permitted only in an
Industrial District,
(2)
service
stations,
service
garages, and car washes (“automobile laundries”), except as an accessory use to a multiple dwelling,
where such services are available
exclusively to residents to the multiple dwelling and for which no
exterior signs are displayed,
(3) adult entertainment uses, as
defined in Section 347.07 of this
Code,
(4) animal kennels and establishments in which animal slaughtering
is conducted.
(e) Limitation on Parking. In
Downtown Residential (DR) Districts, parking shall be permitted as
an accessory use but shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) parking spaces per dwelling unit plus
the minimum number of parking
spaces that would be required for
any non-residential floor area, if
such property were subject to the
parking requirements of this zoning
code.
(f) Limitation on Location of NonResidential Main Uses. In Downtown Residential (DR) Districts, no
building shall be devoted exclusively to retail, office, or other permitted non-residential main uses. Such
uses shall be located only in buildings which are devoted principally
to residential use or to garages pro-

525

25
viding parking for the residential
uses.
(g) Exceptions to Yard Regula tions. Requirements for interior side
yards
and
rear
yards
may
be
waived by the Board of Zoning
Appeals in Downtown Residential
(DR) Districts if the Board determines that one of the following factors applies:
(1) the subject property owner
has obtained a legal interest from
an adjoining property owner to provide yard areas which are equivalent to those required — such legal
interest to be properly recorded, to
be of appropriate duration and to be
filed with the Division of Building
and Housing prior to issuance of a
Building Permit;
(2) no windows for residential
uses are located in any side of the
building where the required yard
area is not provided; or
(3) development of a structure on
an adjoining property, so as to block
adequate light and air to windows
for residential uses, is made infeasible by topography, natural features or other factors identified by
the Board.
(h) Area Regulations. Regulations
of Section 355.04 regarding “minimum lot area per dwelling unit” and
the ratio of “maximum gross floor
area to lot area” shall not apply in
Downtown Residential (DR) Districts.
(i) Nonconforming Uses and Build ings. Legally established nonconforming uses located in a Downtown
Residential (DR) District may be
continued in accordance with the
regulations of Chapter 359 of the
Zoning Code. In addition, within a
DR District, any building which
does not meet the minimum requirement for proportion of floor area in
residential use shall be governed by
the
following
regulations
with
regard to changes in use:
(1) Any existing non-residential
use may be replaced by any use permitted in the DR District, without
action by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(2) Any vacant space in which the
immediate prior use was non-residential may be occupied by any use
permitted in the DR District, without action by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(j) Signs. In a Downtown Residential District, signs shall be permitted as in a General Retail District.
Section 2. That Sections 335.01 and
335.02 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 552-96, passed June
10, 1996, and enacted by Ordinance
No. 2204-A-48, passed December 19,
1949,
respectively,
are
hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 335.01 Designation of Use
Districts
The City is hereby divided into
the Public Land Protective District
and into seventeen use districts
which shall be known, in order of
restrictiveness, beginning with the
most restrictive as:
Limited One-Family Districts
One-Family Districts
Two-Family Districts
Townhouse (RA) Districts
Limited Multi-Family Districts
Multi-Family Districts
Downtown Residential (DR) Districts
Residence-Office Districts
Parking Districts
Local Retail Business Districts

26
Shopping Center Districts
University (College) Retail Districts
General Retail Business Districts
Residence-Industry Districts
Semi-Industry Districts
General Industry Districts
Unrestricted Industry Districts
Section
335.02
Residence
and
Dwelling House Districts Defined
(a) As used in this Zoning Code,
“Residence Districts” means any one
or all of the first eight use districts
enumerated in Section 335.01.
(b) As used in this Zoning Code,
“Dwelling House District” mean any
or all Residence Districts other than
Multi-Family Districts.
(c) Except as otherwise provided
in this Zoning Code, no building or
other structure or premises in a
Dwelling House District shall hereafter
be
erected,
altered,
used,
arranged or designed to be used, in
whole or in part for other than a
dwelling house.
Section 3. That existing Sections
335.01 and 335.02 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 552-96,
passed June 10, 1996, and enacted by
Ordinance
No.
2204-A-48,
passed
December 19, 1949, respectively, are
hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1114-2000.
By Councilmen Johnson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Grand, Tennyson and
Buckeye Roads to Allegheny West
Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted and implemented the procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-004 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 126-22-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
91 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 416 and 424,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being a
parcel of land 40 feet front on the
Southeasterly side of Grand Avenue,
and extending back of equal width
125 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-011 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
4 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416, 423
and 424 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 50 feet 3/4 inches front on the
Southerly side of Buckeye Road,
S.E., and extending back 148 feet 91/4 inches deep on the Easterly line,
151 feet 3 inches deep on the Westerly line and is 50 feet in the rear,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-012 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-012
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
3 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416, 423,
and 424, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 50 feet 3/4 of an inches front
on the Southerly side of Buckeye
Road, S.E., and extending back 146
feet 3 3/4 inches on the Easterly
line, 148 feet 9 1/4 inches on the
Westerly line, and having a rear
line of 50 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-013 as

526

March 21, 2001
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 2 in Brooks, Pope and
Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415,
416, 423 and 424 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
33
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and further described as
follows:
Beginning of the Southwesterly
line of Buckeye Road, S.E., at its
intersection with the Northwesterly
line
of
Tennyson
Avenue,
S.E.,
thence Southwesterly along the said
Northwesterly of Tennyson Avenue,
S.E., 63 42/100 feet to the principal
place of beginning; thence Northwesterly at right angles to the
Northwesterly
line
of
Tennyson
Avenue, S.E., 50 feet to the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2; thence
Southwesterly along the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2, 27 01/100
feet; thence Southeasterly, 50 feet to
the Northwesterly line of Tennyson
Avenue, S.E. to a point distant 27.01
feet Southwesterly from the principal
place
of
beginning;
thence
Northeasterly along the Northwesterly line of Tennyson Avenue, S.E.,
27 01 /100 feet to the principal place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-061 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as the Northeasterly 26.80 feet of the Southeasterly
53.40 feet of Sublot No. 2 in Brooks,
Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 415, 416, 423, and 424 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 33 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 26.80 feet front
on the Northwesterly side of Taylor
Street, now known as Tennyson
Road, S.E., and extending back
between parallel lines, 50 feet to the
Northwesterly line of said Sublot No.
2, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to restrictions and easements contained in deed recorded in
Volume 8681, Page 671, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-062 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.

March 21, 2001
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-062
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southwesterly 26.6 feet of Sublot
No. 2 in Brooks, Pope and Cowle’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416,
423 and 424, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
33
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 26.6 feet front
on the Northwesterly side of Tennyson Road, S.E., (formerly Taylor
Street) and extending
back of
equal
width
50
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-063 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 14. That the real property to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-22-063
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
96 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416, 423
and 424, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 50 feet front on the Westerly
side of Tennyson Road, S.E., and
extending back of equal width 125
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-064 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
97 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416, 423,
and 424, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of Tennyson Road, S.E., (formerly Taylor Street) and extending
back of equal width 125 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

The City Record
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-065 as
more fully described below, to Allegheny West Conference of Seventh
Day Adventist.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
98 and the Northeasterly 3 feet of
Sublot No. 99 in Brooks, Pope and
Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415,
416, 423, and 424 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
33
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 43 feet front on the
Northwesterly
side
of
Tennyson
Road, S.E., (formerly Taylor Street)
and extending back of equal width
125 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-066 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Southwesterly 37 feet of Sublot No. 99 in
Brooks, Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415, 416, 423, and
424, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 37 feet front on the Northwesterly side of Tennyson Road,
S.E., and extending back of equal
width 125 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-067 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-067
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
100 in Brooks, Pope and Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 416, and 424
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 33 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Northwesterly side
of Tennyson Road, S.E., (formerly
Taylor Street), and extending back
of equal width 125 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

527

27
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-22-071 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Allegheny West Conference of Seventh Day Adventist.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-22-071
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 2 in Brooks, Pope and
Cowles Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 415,
416, 423, and 424 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
33
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being further described
as follows:
Beginning in the Southwesterly
line of Buckeye Road, S.E., at the
most Northerly corner of said Sublot
No. 2; thence Southeasterly along
said Southwesterly line of Buckeye
Road, S.E., 50-06/100 feet to the
Northwesterly
line
of
Tennyson
Road,
S.E.
thence
Southwesterly
along said Northwesterly line of
Tennyson Road, S.E., 63-42/100 feet;
thence
Northwesterly
at
right
angles to the Northwesterly line of
Tennyson Road, S.E., 50 feet to the
Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2;
thence
Northeasterly
along
said
Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2,
65-89/100 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 25. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 26. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 27. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 28. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record

28

March 21, 2001

Ord. No. 1400-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1129-2000, passed June 19, 2000,
relating to an Encroachment Permit
on West 6th Street for the Sanctuary Diner.

business owner or operator occupying any portion of a public sidewalk, court, alley, street or other
public right-of-way without a permit
as required by this Chapter shall be
subject to the fines and penalties
set forth in Sections 513.09 and
513.99 of this Chapter.

name the City of Cleveland as an
additional insured, its officers and
employees, and shall further provide
that the policy shall not terminate
or be canceled prior to the expiration date of the permit without thirty (30) days’ written notice to the
Director.

Ord. No. 1800-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 513.01 to 513.11 and
513.99 relating to the issuance of
temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits for outdoor restaurants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 513.01 to 513.11 and
513.99 to read, respectively, as follows:

Section 513.03 Application for Permits
Application for a permit shall be
made to the Director in a form
deemed appropriate by him. Such
application shall include, but not be
limited to, the following information:
(a) Name, phone number and
address of the applicant;
(b) Name and address of the business establishment seeking the temporary occupancy permit;
(c) A description of the proposed
area, with photographs, to be occupied by the outdoor restaurant and
the hours and days of operation;
(d) Detailed plans drawn to scale
showing the locations, number and
arrangement of tables, chairs, and
other structures, the location of the
pedestrian
diverters
planned
to
demarcate the occupied area, the
location of the entrance to the establishment, the locations of fire exits
or fire escapes, and the nature and
location of any existing sidewalk
obstructions;
(e) A description of the tables,
chairs, pedestrian diverters, and
other structures, including information about the composition.
(f) A signed statement that the
applicant is the owner of the business
establishment
immediately
adjacent to the proposed area to be
occupied by an outdoor restaurant;
(g) A description of the type of
food and beverage to be served;
(h) If applicable, a copy of the
applicant’s liquor permit, expansion
permit, and a complete copy of the
expansion permit application submitted to the Division of Liquor
Control.
(i) Evidence that all required
health licenses, including, but not
limited to, the license required by
section 241.22 of the Codified Ordinances, have been obtained or have
been applied for; and
(j) A signed statement that the
permittee shall hold harmless the
City of Cleveland, its officers and
employees and shall indemnify the
City of Cleveland, its officers and
employees for any claims or damage
to property or injury to persons
which may be occasioned by any
activity carried on under the terms
of the permit. Permittee shall furnish and maintain such public liability, food products liability, and
property damage insurance as will
protect permittee and the city from
all claims for damage to property or
bodily
injury,
including
death,
which may arise from operations
under the permit or in connection
therewith. Such insurance shall provide coverage in an amount of not
less
than
One
Million
Dollars
($1,000,000.00) on account of an accident involving injuries, including
death, to one or more persons and
property damage insurance in an
amount of not less than One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000.00), or a combined single limit of One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000.00) provided however, that this insurance requirement shall not be construed to limit
permittee’s indemnification obligations to the above-required limits of
insurance. Such insurance shall also

Section 513.04 Permit Fee, Issuance and Duration
An application for a permit shall
be accompanied by a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each outdoor restaurant for which a permit
is desired that serves non-alcoholic
beverages and a fee of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) for
each outdoor restaurant for which a
permit is desired that serves alcoholic beverages. If the applicant is
not issued a permit, the fee shall be
refunded, except one hundred dollars
($100.00)
for
administrative
expenses.
On the approval of the application
by the Commissioner of Environmental Health, the Director of Public Safety, the Director of Public
Service, the Director of the City
Planning Commission, the Secretary
of the Landmarks Commission, as
applicable, and upon compliance
with the Council notification provision described below, the Director
of Public Service shall issue a permit in accordance with this Chapter. Denial of a permit may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
No permit shall be issued until the
members of Council of the wards
affected have been provided with
written notice by the Director of
Public Service and until the expiration of thirty (30) days from the
date of such notice, unless such period of thirty (30) days is expressly
waived by such Council members in
writing. The processing of a complete application shall not take
more than ninety (90) days and in
the event such application is not
processed within ninety (90) days,
the applicant shall be entitled to a
refund of the permit fee.
Permits shall be valid for an eight
month period, commencing April 1
and ending November 30. Permits
may be renewed, on a form provided by the Director, for the following
season provided all the requirements of this Chapter are met, and
no changes have been made from
the previous approved application.
The permit renewal fee shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
outdoor restaurant that serves nonalcoholic beverages and one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) for
each outdoor restaurant that serves
alcoholic beverages. If there are
changes to the application, a new
application must be made in accordance with this application and the
appropriate permit fee shall accompany such application.

Chapter 513
ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
OCCUPANCY PERMITS FOR
OUTDOOR RESTAURANTS
Section 513.01 Definitions
When used in this Chapter, the
following words shall have the following meanings:
(a) “Director” means the Director
of Public Service or his designee.
(b) “Outdoor Restaurant” means a
portion of a public sidewalk, court,
alley, street, or other public right-ofway that is used by a business
establishment to serve food and beverage.
(c) “Permit” means a temporary
public right-of-way occupancy permit authorized by Section 513.02 of
the Codified Ordinances.
(d) “Permittee” means the person
who owns the outdoor restaurant
permitted to occupy an area of the
public right-of-way.
(e)
“Right-of-way”
means
any
sidewalk, court, alley, street or
other area dedicated or otherwise
designated for public use and held
by the City.
(f) “Unobstructed Walk” means a
clear, continuous paved surface free
of tree grates, elevator grates and
all vertical obstructions.
Section 513.02 Temporary Public
Right-of-Way Occupancy Permits
Notwithstanding any codified ordinance to the contrary, the Director
of Public Service is hereby authorized to issue temporary public
right-of-way occupancy permits revocable at the will of the Council
authorizing the placement of outdoor restaurants at permitted locations on sidewalks, courts, alleys,
streets or other public rights-of-way
in the City, subject to the provisions
of
this
Chapter.
A
separate
encroachment permit for such outdoor
restaurants
shall
not
be
required.
No owner or operator of a business establishment shall occupy any
portion of a public sidewalk, court,
alley, street or other public right-ofway with an outdoor restaurant
without first obtaining a permit in
accordance with this Chapter. Any

528

Section 513.05 Permitted Locations
The Director, consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and the
zoning code, shall establish rules and
regulations as the Director deems
proper with respect to permitted locations for the operation of outdoor
restaurants. The Director shall consider the operation and location of
the outdoor restaurant, the maintenance of the business establishment
requesting a permit, the proximity
and location of emergency exits, fire
standpipes, fire hydrants, driveways,
handicap ramps, handicapped parking zones, commercial loading and

March 21, 2001
unloading zones, the condition of the
sidewalk, and other factors he deems
relevant. The Director may modify
the rules and regulations as he
deems necessary.
The issuance of permits and the
maintenance of tables, chairs and
other structures shall be subject to
the rules and regulations established by the Director, the zoning
code and the following conditions
and restrictions:
(a) Outdoor restaurants shall not
obstruct emergency exits or fire
standpipes;
(b) Outdoor restaurants shall not
occupy any portion of the roadway
or within two (2) feet of the curb;
(c) Outdoor restaurants shall not
be permitted within six (6) feet of
any fire hydrant, within five (5)
feet of any driveway, within three
(3) feet of any sidewalk handicap
ramp, or within that portion of the
sidewalk parallel to an area designated
for
parking,
handicapped
parking or commercial loading and
unloading; and
(d) At any location where the
clear, continuous, unobstructed sidewalk for the passageway of pedestrians is reduced to less than six (6)
feet with the exception of the following areas which shall have clear,
continuous unobstructed sidewalk at
width of no less than ten (10) feet:
(1) Public Square;
(2) East 9th Street between Carnegie and the East 9th Street Pier,
Lakeside Avenue, St. Clair Avenue
and Superior Avenue between Ontario
Street and East 13th Street; and
(3) Euclid Avenue between Public
Square and East 14th Street, Ontario
Street between Carnegie Avenue
and Lakeside Avenue, East 6th
Street between Superior Avenue and
Lakeside Avenue.
Section 513.06 Permits
Permits shall be issued in such a
manner that they are distinguishable from liquor permits issued by
the State of Ohio and shall be posted in a conspicuous location in a
window or other readily visible location of the frontage of the applicant’s business establishment. The
permit shall be protected from the
weather as necessary and shall be
clearly visible from the public sidewalk, court, alley or street and not
obstructed by awnings, landscaping
or other impediments.
Each permit shall contain the following information:
(a) The name and address of the
permittee;
(b) A description of the permitted
location;
(c) A description of the tables,
chairs and other structures;
(d)
A
statement
indicating
whether the permittee is authorized
by the State of Ohio to serve alcohol in the outdoor restaurant.
(e) The expiration date of the permit; and
(f) Any other information the
Director deems desirable.
Section 513.07 Requirements and
Conditions of Permit
(a) Permittees and their agents
shall comply with all of the requirements of this chapter and any
applicable state law, while engaged
in business at permitted locations.
(b) The outdoor restaurant shall
be placed only on the location set
forth in the permit.
(c) An outdoor restaurant located
in the Central Business District
shall not operate earlier than 6:00

The City Record
a.m. nor later than 12:00 midnight.
An outdoor restaurant located in
any district other than the Central
Business District shall not operate
earlier than 6:00 a.m. nor later than
11:00 p.m.
(d) Permittees and their agents
shall obey any order of a police officer or other emergency personnel to
remove their tables, chairs and
other structures from the public
right-of-way if necessary to avoid
congestion or obstruction in an
emergency.
(e) Permittees shall maintain all
required health licenses, including,
but not limited to, the license
required by section 241.22 of the
Codified Ordinances.
(f) Permittees and their agents
shall be responsible for maintaining
all outdoor restaurant structures and
associated equipment in good repair,
free of corrosion and in a safe,
sound and nonhazardous condition.
(g) Permittees and their agents
shall be responsible for keeping the
general area around the permitted
location free of litter. Permittees
and their agents shall provide a
suitable container for the placement
of paper, wrappers, and other similar items used by customers and others within the permitted area.
(h) Permittees shall not cook food
in the outdoor restaurant.
(i) Permittees shall not place
signs in the outdoor restaurant,
except pursuant to a permit issued
by the City of Cleveland.
(j) No permit shall be transferable
in any manner.
(k) A permit is valid only when
used at the location designated in
the permit.
Section 513.08 Permit Suspension
and Revocation
(a) The Director may suspend or
revoke the permit of any permittee
if the permittee or his agent fails to
abide by the provisions of these Codified Ordinances or state law, or if
any required health license has been
suspended or revoked.
(b) The Director shall give written notice of suspension or revocation of the permit to the permittee or
his agent stating the reasons therefor. If the reason for the suspension
or revocation is that a required
health license has been suspended or
revoked or that the permittee does
not currently have an effective insurance policy as required by division
(h) of Section 513.03, the action shall
be effective upon giving such notice
to the permittee or to his agent. Otherwise, such notice shall contain the
further provision that the action
shall become final and effective ten
(10) days thereafter unless, within
five (5) days of receipt of notice, the
permittee requests a hearing before
the Director. The Director shall
forthwith hold the requested hearing,
at which time the permittee shall be
afforded the opportunity to give his
version of the facts which gave rise
to the Director’s action. After the
hearing the Director shall determine
whether to proceed with the action
or to rescind it.
(c) The action of the Director may
be appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
Section 513.09 Removal of Tables,
Chairs and Other Associated Equipment
Any tables, chairs and other associated equipment placed in a public
sidewalk, court, alley, street or
other public right-of-way without a

529

29
permit issued pursuant to this section may be seized and removed.
Prior to such seizure and removal,
the property owner or operator of
the business establishment fronting
on the public right-of-way from
which the tables, chairs and other
associated equipment are to be
removed shall be notified and given
two (2) days in which to remedy the
violation. If the property owner or
operator of the business establishment fails to remedy the violation,
the City may seize and remove the
tables and chairs and other associated equipment.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, the City may
seize any tables and chairs and
other associated equipment, whether
placed with or without a permit,
without prior notice if the tables and
chairs and other associated equipment are placed in the public rightof-way in such a place or manner as
to pose an immediate and serious
danger to persons or property or if
the condition of the tables, chairs,
and associated equipment renders
them unsafe, unsound or hazardous
so as to pose an immediate and serious danger to persons or property.
After seizure, the City shall promptly notify the owner or operator of
the business establishment and such
individual shall have the right to
request an informal hearing before
the Director within ten (10) days
after such notification to determine
whether the seizure was proper.
As a condition of recovering any
tables and chairs and other associated equipment properly seized pursuant to this section, the owner of
such tables and chairs and other
associated equipment shall pay an
impound fee covering the actual
cost to the City of transporting and
storing such tables and chairs and
other associated equipment.
Section 513.10 Taxes
The Permittee shall be responsible
for all charges and all federal, state
or local taxes, including property
taxes, which may now or hereafter
be imposed or levied upon the outdoor restaurant and the services provided in connection therewith.
Section 513.11 Regulations
The
Director
may
promulgate
such regulations, not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Chapter,
establishing
procedures
for
the
issuance of permits.
Section 513.99 Penalty
Whoever violates any provision of
this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
Each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2096-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of painting the

30
Kirtland Intake Crib, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract for the making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
painting
the
Kirtland
Intake Crib, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement provided
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
said improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of such trades
or components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. Upon request of said director
the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of said
improvement.
Section 3. That, if the lowest
responsible
bid
for
the
public
improvement authorized herein exceeds $750,000.00, the Director of
Public Utilities shall notify the President of Council and the Chairman
of the Public Utilities Committee of
such fact.
Section 4. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall not exceed $825,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 52 SF
001, 52 SF 223, 52 SF 225, and from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of
waterworks revenue bonds issued
for the purpose which includes the
above improvement, Request No.
33337.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2108-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of laying and
re-laying and repairing sidewalks,
handicap ramps, curbing, driveway
aprons, median strips, intersections,
bridge
approaches,
utility
box
adjustments, and/or castings, and
miscellaneous appurtenances on the
eastern, western, northern, southern
and downtown districts of the City
and authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into one or more
requirement contracts for the making of said improvements through
December 31, 2002.
Whereas, from time to time this
Council declares by resolution of

The City Record
necessity that certain specified sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings be layed, relayed or repaired by the owner of
such parcel of land abutting upon
said sidewalks, curbing or intersections; and
Whereas,
said
resolutions
of
necessity further provide that if the
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs,
gutters
and/or
casting
are
not
layed, re-layed or repaired by the
abutting owner as provided by
notice, the City shall proceed to lay,
re-lay or repair such sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or
castings at the cost and expense of
the abutting owner; and
Whereas, certain City sidewalks,
curbs, driveway aprons, gutters,
and/or castings, require laying, relaying or repair, in conjunction
with the sidewalks and curbing
repairs in certain districts of the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Sections 165 and 167 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland, it is hereby
determined to make the public
improvement of laying, re-laying
and repairing specified sidewalks,
driveway
aprons,
curbs,
gutters
and/or castings in the eastern, western, northern, southern and downtown districts of the City as identified in resolutions of necessity
passed by this Council, including,
but not limited to, Resolution No.
813-99, adopted by this Council on
May 3, 1999, and Resolution No. 14001, requiring the laying, re-laying
and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or
castings on the following streets
and any associated corner properties:
Catalpa Road - North of Euclid
Avenue;
Cleveland Road - North of St. Clair
Avenue;
Creekview - Nottingham Road to
east end;
Dillewood - 176th Street to east
end;
East 176th Street - Villaview to
Nottingham Road;
East 177th Street - Villaview to
Nottingham Road;
Nottingham Road - Villaview to
Lakeshore Boulevard;
Shelton Road - Nottingham Road
to east end;
Tiverton Road - Nottingham Road
to east end;
West 93rd Street - Madison Avenue
to Willard Avenue;
Ashbury Avenue - East Boulevard
to Lakeview Road;
Woodhaven- Ridge Road to West
63rd Street; and
West 59th Street - Memphis to
Ridgeview,
by one or more public improvement
requirement contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into a written requirement
contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for all such work
estimated to be performed during
the period ending December 31, 2002,
on a unit basis. In the discretion of

530

March 21, 2001
the
Board
of
Control,
separate
requirement contracts may be let for
specific districts or streets within
the City.
Section
3.
That
the
written
requirement contract for the making
of the above public improvement
may also include laying, re-laying
and repairing median strips, intersections, bridge approaches, and
handicap ramps, which cost shall be
borne by the City and not assessed
to the adjoining landowners.
Section 4. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, laying, re-laying and repairing
median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches and handicap ramps in
the
eastern,
western,
northern,
southern and downtown districts of
the City, in conjunction with the
making of the sidewalk improvements authorized in Section 1, by
one or more public improvement
requirement contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into a written requirement
contract for the making of the public improvement described in Section
4 with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for all
such work estimated to be performed during the period ending on
December 31, 2002, on a unit basis.
In the discretion of the Board of
Control, separate requirement contracts may be let for specific districts within the City.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by the
ordinance shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase
thereunder,
which
purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That the cost of the
improvements
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
373, 10 SF 034, and from such fund
or funds which may be appropriated
for this
purpose in the future,
Request No. 34420. It is the intent of
this Council that the districts be
assessed for the improvements authorized in Section 1 hereof pursuant to
the assessment process as set forth
in the resolution of necessity and the
ordinance
of
assessment,
which
assessment shall be submitted by the
Director of Finance upon conclusion
of the work, and that all or a portion of the monies collected as a
result of said assessments be used to
reimburse the appropriate account.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 82-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement

March 21, 2001
contract of various pool chemicals,
for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Ord. No. 123-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on scattered
sites to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-02-020 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-02-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
95 in Jacob B. Perkins South side
Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 71 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 11
of Maps, Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50 feet front
on the Easterly side of Scranton
Road and extending back 177.35 feet
on the Northerly line and 146.96 feet
on the Southerly line and having a
broken line of 76.43 feet along the
Westerly line of West 18th Place
and Castle Court as appears by said
plat.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-11-064 as
more fully described below to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-11-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in Meyer and Curtiss’ Allotment
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 72, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
29
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Holmden

The City Record
Avenue, S.W., and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Restriction of record and zoning
ordinance if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-11-065 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-11-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Sublot
No. 64 in Meyer and Curtiss Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 72 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Holmden
Avenue and extending back of equal
width 150 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-11-100 as
more fully described to Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-11-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 16-8/12 feet of Sublot No. 10 and
the Westerly 16-8/12 feet of Sublot
No. 11 in Meyer and Curtiss’ Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 72 and shown in
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 33-4/12 feet front
on the Northerly side of Buhrer
Avenue, S.W., (formerly known as
Buhrer Avenue), and extending back
of equal width 142 feet and 10-1/2
inches deep as appears by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 008-11-109 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-11-109
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
15 in the N. Meyer’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 72, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
49 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Rowley Avenue, S.W., and
extending back 175 feet 1 inch on
the Easterly line, 175 feet on the
Westerly line and having a rear line
of 36 feet 2 inches, as appears by

531

31
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-11-110 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-11-110
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Nicholas Meyer’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 72 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
49 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Rowley Avenue, S.W., 174
feet 11 inches deep on the Westerly
line 175 feet deep on the Easterly
line and 40 feet wide in the rear as
appears by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified, Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-15-048 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-15-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 27 and 28 in A. Stone’s
Allotment
of
part
of
Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 67 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
24
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner
of Sublot No. 27 and the Westerly
line of Scranton Road, S.W.; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
Sublot No. 27, 134 feet 4/5 inch to a
point which is also the Northeasterly corner of parcel of land conveyed
by Mary E. Atherton, widow, to
Edward and Lura D. Ward, by deed
dated June 11, 1920, and filed for
record July 30, 1920 in Volume 2442,
Page
245
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of said land so conveyed, 60 feet to the Southeasterly
corner thereof; thence Easterly parallel to the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 28, 131 feet 6-1/5 inches to the
Westerly line of Scranton Road,
S.W., thence Northerly, along the
Westerly line of Scranton Road,
S.W., 60 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-16-105 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

32
P. P. No. 008-16-105
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 25 feet of Sublot No. 82 and the
Easterly 10 feet of Sublot No. 83 in
Ruth Curtiss’ Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lots
Nos. 67 and 72 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 35 feet front on the
Northerly side of Clover Avenue,
S.W., and extending back of equal
width 124 feet to a 12 foot alley in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to restrictions and easements contained in deed recorded in
Volume 590, Page 408, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-16-057 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-16-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 17 and the Easterly 5 feet of
Sublot No. 16 in Ruth Curtiss Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 67 and 72,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 12 of Maps, Page 43 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
together forming a parcel of land 45
feet front on the Southerly side of
Brainard Avenue, S.W., and extending back of equal width 124 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-16-089 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-16-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: And known as
being Sublot No. 61 in Ruth Curtiss
Allotment
of
part
of
Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 67 and
72, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 12 of Maps, Page 43 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly side of Corning Avenue, S.W.,
and extending back of equal width,
124 feet deep, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordi-

The City Record
nances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-16-090 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 008-16-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
60 in Ruth Curtiss Allotment of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Nos. 67 and 72, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Southerly
side
of
Corning
Avenue, S.W., and extending back of
equal width 124 feet to a 12 foot
alley in the rear, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 23. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 24. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 25. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 26. That the house and site
designs shall be reviewed by the
City Planning Commission after the
conveyance of the above-mentioned
properties.
Section 27. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 124-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 27 pursuant to Title
I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, for the 2001
Federal HOME Grant Program, Emer-

532

March 21, 2001
gency Shelter Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS Program.
Ord. No. 126-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 125.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 595-2000,
passed October 23, 2000, relating to
the Law Director’s powers and
duties.
Ord. No. 285-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of towel and linen service,
for the various divisions of City
government.

BOARD OF CONTROL
March 14, 2001
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 14, 2001,
at 11:00 a.m. with Mayor White presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Director Borokhovich, Directors Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 140-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 881-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 7, 1999, Creative Works, Inc. is
hereby selected from a list of firms
determined after full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Utilities, as the firm to be employed
by contract to provide the services
required for production of the Division of Water’s consumer information brochures, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities hereby is
requested to enter into a contract
with Creative Works, Inc. based
upon its proposal submitted November 27, 2000, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
shall provide for furnishing of professional services as contained in
said proposal, for an aggregate fee
not in excess of eighty-one thousand
five
hundred
eighty-five
dollars
($81,585.00), and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Carter and Whitlow.

March 21, 2001
Resolution No. 141-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 828-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 12, 2000, H2N Design, Inc. is
hereby selected from a list of firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Utilities, as the firm to be employed
by contract to provide the services
required for production of the Division of Water’s 2000 and 2001 annual reports, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities hereby is
requested to enter into a contract
with H2N Design, Inc. based upon
its proposal dated January 23, 2001,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for furnishing of professional services as contained in said proposal,
for an aggregate fee not in excess
of $140,279.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by H2N
Design, Inc. for the above mentioned
professional
service
are
hereby
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR — WORK
Wester Communications
$12,000.00 — MBE
Polk Photography
$13,278.00 — MBE
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Carter and Whitlow.
Resolution No. 142-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Longo Sewer Construction Co., Inc. for the public
improvement
of
Rowley
Avenue
Sewer Replacement (Base Bid Items
202, 400, 400-B, 603, 604, 619, 623,
including the 10% contingency allowance) for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, received on February 1, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2156-99, passed
March 27, 2000, upon a unit basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of One Hundred Seventy
Seven Thousand Five Hundred Two
Dollars and 83/100 ($177,502.83), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter into contract
for said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Carter and Whitlow.

The City Record

33

Resolution No. 143-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 608-98,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on June 15, 1998, Malcolm Pirnie,
Inc. (“Consultant”) is hereby selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment and determined
after a full and complete canvass by
said Director as the environmental
firm to be employed by contract for
the purpose of providing professional environmental services for the
preparation of the Spill Prevention
Control and Countermeasures Plan
(SPCC) for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to enter into a written
contract with Malcolm Pirnie, Inc.
for the Spill Prevention Control and
Countermeasures Plan in an amount
not to exceed Seventy Thousand
Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars
($70,500.00). The contract authorized
hereby shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such other provision, as said Director deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Malcolm Pirnie, Inc.
for the above-mentioned contract are
hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

SERVICES

Ribway Engineering
15% — MBE
Field survey,
design and plan
preparation
KS Associates, Inc.
5% — FBE
Surveying
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Carter and Whitlow.
Resolution No. 144-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 608-1998,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on June 15, 1998, Hull & Associates (“Consultant”) is hereby selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment and determined
after a full and complete canvass by
said Director as the environmental
firm to be employed by contract for
the purpose of providing professional environmental services required
under the Ohio Voluntary Action
Program, including but not limited
to, reviewing sampling and, test
methods, consultant oversight and
evaluation,
and
risk
assessment
development for projects associated
with Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to enter into a written

533

contract with Hull & Associates
based on its proposal dated September 20, 2000, for services in an
amount not to exceed One Hundred
Forty-Nine Thousand Eight Hundred
Fifty-Four
and
00/100
Dollars
($149,854.00). The contract authorized hereby shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such other provisions as said
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Hull & Associates for
the
above-authorized
contract
is
hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
AMOUNT

SERVICES

Dodson-Stilson
17% — MBE — $25,340.00
Geotechnical and
Environmental
Assessment Testing,
Sampling and
Remediation Services
City Blue
7% — FBE — $6,920.00
Reproduction and
Blueprint Services
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Carter and Whitlow.
Resolution No. 145-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Inland Waters of Ohio for labor
and materials necessary to clean
and maintain oil water separators,
sewers, electrical vaults and associated appurtenances, including test
and disposal of waste materials, all
items, for various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period not to exceed one year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract received on 8th day of
December, 2000, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 328-2000,
passed on June 12, 2000, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred Ninety-Nine Thousand Six Hundred Ninety
Six
and
40/100
Dollars,
($299,696.40), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bidder and the Director of Port Control
is hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 35741
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($100,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control that the following

The City Record

34
subcontractor to Inland Waters of
Ohio is hereby approved:
Eden Environmental
FBE — $17,290.00 — 6%
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Directors
Carter
and
Whitlow.
Resolution No. 146-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 95-01,
adopted pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 2019-2000, passed by
the Cleveland City Council December 18, 2000, this Board of Control
approved the bid of NozzleNew, Inc.,
as the lowest and best bid for the
purchase of stationary generator
repair (all items); and
Whereas, in said Resolution No.
95-01, the bid receipt date was incorrectly stated as January 19, 2000;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 9501,
adopted
February
21,
2001,
affirming and approving the bid of
NozzleNew, Inc. as the lowest and
best for the purchase of stationary
generator repair (all items), for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
hereby is amended by changing the
bid receipt date to January 19, 2001.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 95-01 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain in full force
and effect.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors Miller,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 147-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on January 5, 2001 for various automotive and truck parts,
items 40, 41 and 42 for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1264-99, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on August 11,
1999, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors Miller,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 148-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Admiral Truck Parts, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of various
automotive and truck parts, items:
7(D), 11 (A and B), 16, 19, 23 (A and
B), 32, 33, 34, 38 and 46, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,

Department of Public Service, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on January 5, 2001,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1264-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 11, 1999, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to One Hundred Forty Four
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars,
($144,000.00), (2% Net, 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29537
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Seventeen Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($17,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors Miller,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 149-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Carquest Auto Parts of
Solon Ohio, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of various automotive and
truck parts, items: 3(A), 20(A), 24
and 36(B), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
January 5, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1264-99,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 11, 1999, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Sixteen Thousand Five Hundred and no/100 Dollars, ($16,500.00), (Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29538
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Three
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($3,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.

534

March 21, 2001
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors Miller,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 150-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Servco Products, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of various
automotive and truck parts, item: 39
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract received on January 5, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1264-99, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 11, 1999, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Thirty Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars,
($30,000.00),
(10%, Net 10 Days), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29541
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Four
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($4,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors Miller,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 151-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Perkins Motor Services,
Ltd. for an estimated quantity of
various automotive and truck parts,
items: 6 (A-E), 7 (A, B, C and E), 8,
9, 15, 17 (A-C), 18, 21 (A), 22 (A and
B), 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 35, 36 (A),
37, 43 and 45, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract
received on January 5, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1264-99, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on August 11,
1999, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Four Hundred Twenty Seven Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars,
($427,000.00), (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the

March 21, 2001
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29540
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($25,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter,
Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Director Borokhovich,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Szabo, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 152-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of The Cleveland Ignition
Co. for an estimated quantity of various automotive and truck parts,
items: 1 (A and B), 4 (A-C) and 5
(A-C), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
January 5, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1264-99,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 11, 1999, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to One Hundred
Fifty Three Thousand and no/100
Dollars, ($153,000.00), (2% - 10th
Prox.),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 29539
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter,
Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Director Borokhovich,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Szabo, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 153-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of TruckPro, Inc. dba TruckPro for an estimated quantity of
various automotive and truck parts,
items: 2, 10, 12, 13, 14 (A-C), 20 (B),
21 (B and C), 30 and 44, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of one (1) year begin-

The City Record
ning with the date of execution of
a contract received on January 5,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1264-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 11, 1999, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to One Hundred Fourteen
Thousand Five Hundred and no/100
Dollars, ($114,500.00), (Net 30 Days),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29542
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter,
Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Director Borokhovich,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Szabo, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 154-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cenweld Corp. for an estimated quantity of 14' dump bodies
with Option A, less snowplows, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract received on January 19, 2001, pursuant to the authority
of
Ordinance
No.
1058-1999,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 14, 1999, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Hundred
Sixty-Eight
Thousand
Sixty-Five
and 00/100 Dollars, ($168,065.00),
(Net),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 29547
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of One Hundred
Sixty-Eight
Thousand
Sixty-Five
00/100 Dollars ($168,065.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Cenweld Corp. for the above mentioned
purchase is hereby approved:

535

35
Independent Brokers, Ltd.
MBE — $1,008.39 per unit
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors Miller,
Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 155-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Concord Road Equipment
Mfg., Inc. for an estimated quantity
of snowplows, Wausau, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on January 19, 2001,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1058-1999, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 14, 1999, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Twenty-Eight Thousand
Seven Hundred Seventy-Five and
00/100 Dollars, ($28,775.00), (Net), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29548
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty-Eight Thousand Seven Hundred
Seventy-Five
and
00/100
Dollars
($28,775.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter,
Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Director Borokhovich,
Director Whitlow, Acting Director
Szabo, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Ricchiuto.
Resolution No. 156-01.
By Director Whitlow.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on December 20, 2000 for
maintenance and repair of elevators
(all items) for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1683-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on October 23, 2000, be and the same
are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Director Borokhovich, Directors Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 157-01.
By Director Guzman.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the Base Bid, including Alter-

The City Record

36
nates 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, of M-A Building & Maintenance Company, for
the Masonry Repair, Replacement
and Restoration at Various City
Fire & Police Stations, for the
Department
of
Public
Safety,
received on February 8, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 927-2000 passed June 19, 2000, for
a gross price for the improvement
in the aggregate amount of Two
Hundred
Ninety
Nine
Thousand
Seven Hundred and no/100 Dollars
($299,700.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Safety are hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich,
Directors
Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 158-01.
By Director Guzman.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that Base Bid #2, including Alternates 2B and 2C, of T & F Systems
Inc., for the Fifth District Police
Station Roof Replacement, for the
Department of Public Safety, received on February 15, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 927-2000 passed June 19, 2000, for
a gross price for the improvement
in the aggregate amount of Two
Hundred Seventy One Eight Hundred Ninety Five and no/100 Dollars
($271,895.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Safety are hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by T &
F Systems Inc., is hereby approved:
Burkshire Construction
FBE — $8,950.00
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich,
Directors
Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 159-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on October 27,
2000 for plumbing and heating supplies, Section 37 Item 1, for the Division
of
Property
Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1956-98
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 7, 1998, be
and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich,
Directors
Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

Resolution No. 160-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 304-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on March 5, 2001, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies and the
Director
of
Community
Development, as appropriate, are authorized
on behalf of the City, to execute and
deliver a contract for Sale with the
U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development to purchase certain real property and improvements
thereon including a Housing Assistance Payment (“HAP”) contract,
tenant leases and the other personal property related thereto, commonly referred to as Park Village
Apartments (collectively, the “Property”) which is further identified as
Permanent Parcel Numbers 107-20061 to 107-20-070, 107-20-088 to 107-20094, 107-20-097, 107-20-098, 107-20-100,
107-20-113 to 107-20-119, 119-09-059 to
119-09-067; and
Whereas,
Famicos
Foundation
(the “Developer”), has offered to
purchase the Property from the City
and to redevelop the property as a
family housing complex containing
75 affordable living units, together
with related and supporting facilities, at an estimated total development
cost
of
approximately
$7,400,000; and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 30401, authorized the disposition of the
Property
by
negotiation
to
the
Developer, subject to the approval
of the Board of Control; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 304-01,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on March 5, 2001, the
Board of Control hereby approves
the negotiation for the disposition of
the Property to the Developer, or its
designated successors or assigns,
for the consideration of Ten Dollars
($10.00).
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich,
Directors
Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 161-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-24-008, 118-24010, 118-24-032, 118-24-033, 118-26-009,
118-26-010, 118-26-011, 118-26-012, 118-26013, 124-30-037, 124-30-038, 124-30-039,
124-30-040, 124-30-041, 118-34-002, 118-34003, 118-34-004, 118-34-005, 118-26-017,
118-26-023, 118-34-006, 118-33-061, 118-33064, 118-33-065, 118-33-073, 118-33-077,
118-33-079, 118-33-080, 118-33-081, 118-24023, 118-24-024, 124-30-066, 124-30-084,
124-30-085, 124-30-087, 124-30-088, 124-30090, 124-30-091, 124-26-006, 124-26-007,
124-26-002, 124-26-060. 124-27-013, 124-27022, 124-27-020, 118-24-026, 118-24-027,
118-24-028 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 303-01
passed March 12, 2001, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and

536

March 21, 2001
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or designee has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 303-01 passed March
12, 2001, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Cleveland Housing Network,
Inc., or designee for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 118-24-008, 118-24-010, 118-24-032,
118-24-033, 118-26-009, 118-26-010, 11826-011, 118-26-012, 118-26-013, 124-30037, 124-30-038, 124-30-039, 124-30-040,
124-30-041, 119-34-002, 118-34-003, 11834-004, 118-34-005, 118-26-017, 118-26023, 118-34-006, 118-33-061, 118-33-064,
118-33-065, 118-33-073, 118-33-077, 11833-079, 118-33-080, 118-33-081, 118-24023, 118-24-024, 124-30-066, 124-30-084,
124-30-085, 124-30-087, 124-30-088, 12430-090, 124-30-091, 124-26-006, 124-26007, 124-26-002, 124-26-060. 124-27-013,
124-27-022, 124-27-020, 118-24-026, 11824-027, 118-24-028, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek,
Acting
Director
Borokhovich,
Directors
Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Szabo,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

The City Record

March 21, 2001
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 2, 2001
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 01-39: 16300 South
Waterloo Road (Ward 11)
Michael Liptack, owner, appeals
to expand an existing engineering
company use to store materials and
equipment outside all situated on an
approximate 309' x 484' irregular
shaped parcel located in a SemiIndustry District on the south side
of South Waterloo Road at 16300
South Waterloo Road; said expansion of use being contrary to the
Industrial
District
Requirements
where a partial fence is shown at
the south property line and outside
storage shall be surrounded by a 7'
high wall or opaque fence erected to
observe all required building lines
and any lumber used for such wall
or fence shall be new sound material surfaced and painted on the outside as stated in Section 345.03(33)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-41:
1610 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 13)
Playhouse
Square
Association,
owner c/o Keith Feuerstein, agent,
appeals to demolish an existing
approximate 33' x 189' three-story
masonry building located in a General Retail Business District to
expand an existing parking lot
located on the south side of Euclid
Avenue at 1610 Euclid Avenue; said
demolition being contrary to the OffStreet Parking and Loading Requirements where Board of Zoning
Appeals approval is required before
demolition of a subject property to
determine if any reasonable economic use of the subject property
exists without demolition as stated
in Section 349.14(4)(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-42: 2005 West Schaaf
Road (Ward 16)
Brooklyn Heights United Church
of Christ, owner, and Brilliant Electric Sign Company, as their agent,
appeal to install two, 6'-6" tall x 6'6" wide free-standing, identification
bulletin board signs, one being to
the north and the other being to the
west of an approximate 65' x 106'
irregular shaped corner parcel located in a Local Retail Business District and a Multi-Family District at
the northeast corner of Broadview
Road and West Schaaf Road at 2005
West Schaaf Road; said installation
being contrary to the Sign Regulations where the proposed bulletin
boards are setback 5' and 25' is
required as stated in Section 350.13
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-43: 8118 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 6)
Premier Restaurant Management
d.b.a. The Kenny King Corporation,
owner, and Brilliant Electric Sign
Company, as their agent, appeal to
install a 120' high restaurant sign
pole with 116.54 sq. ft. of sign area
in the front of an acreage parcel
located in a General Retail Business
District at 8118 Euclid Avenue; said
installation being contrary to the
Sign Regulations where 116.54 sq. ft.
of cabinet signage is proposed and
the maximum amount of cabinet signage permitted is 50 sq. ft. as stated in Section 350.14 of the Codified
Ordinances.

Calendar No. 01-44: 3712 East 59th
Street (Ward 12)
Divna
Cosas,
owner,
and
Horodysky Associates, agent, appeal
to construct an approximate 21' x
47' one-story monastery chapel in
the rear of a 40' x 140' parcel located in a Two-Family District on the
west side of East 59th Street at 3712
East 59th Street; said construction
being contrary to the Residential
District Requirements of Section
337.02(e)(1) and Section 337.03(b)
where churches and other places of
worship are not permitted in One
and Two Family Residential Districts unless located not less than
15'
away
from
any
adjoining
premises in a Residential District
and contrary to the Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements of
Section 349.04(e) where places of
worship require 1 parking space per
6 seats, plus 1 space for the single
family dwelling requiring 4 offstreet parking spaces and 1 is provided, and contrary to the Height
Regulations where in residence districts, accessory building height
shall not exceed the distance from
the accessory building to a main
building on the adjoining premises
in a Residence District and a 32-1/2'
high structure is proposed and 12'
is permitted as stated in Section
353.05 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-45: 4774 West 32nd
Street (Ward 16)
Shayne M. Shella, owner, appeals
to install approximately 160 linear
feet of 6' high wooden fencing to
the rear of a 40' x 100' parcel located in a One-Family District on the
west side of West 32nd Street at
4774 West 32nd Street; said installation being contrary to the Fence
Regulations where a 6' high fence
is
proposed
and
the
maximum
height of fencing permitted within
the setback area is 4' and must be
50% open as stated in Section
358.02(c)
of
the
Codified
Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2001
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
19, 2001, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-30: 4006 Lee Road
BP Oil Company, owner, appealed
to renovate an existing service station and construct a new service
station on a corner parcel in a Local
Retail Business District; conditional
approval and further subject to
BRD review and community consensus.
Calendar No. 01-32: 14027 Coit Road
Omega Baptist Church, owner,
and Julius Thomas, prospective purchaser, appealed to construct a onestory, 6-bay, self-serve auto laundry
on a corner parcel located in zoning
for General Retail Business and
Two-Family Districts; approval subject to confirmation of land ownership of all parcels involved with the
project.

537

37
Calendar No. 01-33: 4005 Bridge
Avenue
Duneside
Development
Ltd.,
owner, appealed to change the use
of a two-story building into four residential condominium units and construct an eight car garage in a TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 00-376: 954 Linn Drive
True Vine Baptist Church, owner
c/o
Reverend
Edward
McGhee,
appealed to construct an enclosed
stair and lift addition to the east of
a two-story masonry church building
in a Multi-Family District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 01-01: 3277 West 33rd
Street
Higinio Justiniano, Jr., owner,
appealed to construct a 30' x 24'
two-story, frame 3-car garage on a
35' x 134' parcel in a Two-Family
District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 01-20: 3525 West 130th
Street postponed to April 9, 2001.
Calendar No. 01-03: 10201 Harvard
Avenue postponed to April 9,
2001.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 01-31: Appeal of All
City Recycling 17149 St. Clair
Avenue
All City Recycling, Inc., owner,
appealed from the issuance of a
Violation Notice on January 10,
2001.
On Monday, March
Executive Session:
The
following
heard on Monday,
and said decisions
and adopted by the
19, 2001:

19,

2001,

in

appeals
were
March 12, 2001,
were approved
Board on March

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-40: 8000-8116 Central
Avenue
Fairfax Development Corporation,
owner, appealed to construct a 54
unit, three-story, 35' high elderly
housing building and a 25 space
parking lot in a Single Family District.
Calendar No. 00-339: 1278 West 9th
Street
Bingham-Burnside
LLC,
owner,
appealed to change the use of an
existing 14-story warehouse building
to a multi-dwelling unit and assembly and retail store building in a
Limited Retail District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 00-340: 2601 Henninger
Road
Nextel West Corporation, owner
c/o John Kunz, appealed to install
a 10' x 20' one-story unit equipment shelter and a 115' high monopole tower in a Semi-Industry District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The City Record

38
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 2001
Meter Reading Computer Readers,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1678-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 27, 2000.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MARCH
22, 2001, 10:00 A.M., AT CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
March 14, 2001 and March 21, 2001

THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 2001
Genetic Analyzer, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No.
1005-2000, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, July 17,
2000.
March 14, 2001 and March 21, 2001
FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2001
Four (4) Air Compressors, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 1685-2000 and 99-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, October 30, 2000 and January
22, 2001, respectively.
Cab/Chassis with Aerial Bucket and
Chip Dump Body (Request No.
1465-19), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1685-2000 and 99-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 30, 2000 and
January 22, 2001, respectively.
Cab/Chassis with Aerial Bucket and
Chip Dump Body (Request No.
05042-01), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 104-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 17, 2000.
Rehabilitation
of
Approximately
Twenty Five (25) Dump Truck
Bodies, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1685-2000 and 99-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 30, 2000 and
January 22, 2001, respectively.
March 14, 2001 and March 21, 2001
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2001
Cement and Mortar Lining of Various Distribution Mains-Contract A,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2201-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, February 26, 2001.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF
THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE. A PRE-BID
MEETING WILL BE HELD ON
MARCH 27, 2001, 10:00 A.M. AT
THE
CARL
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
5TH
FLOOR
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Cement and Mortar Lining of Various Distribution Mains-Contract B,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2201-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, February 26, 2001.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED

538

March 21, 2001
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF
THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE. A PRE-BID
MEETING WILL BE HELD ON
MARCH 27, 2001, 10:00 A.M. AT
THE
CARL
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
5TH
FLOOR
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 14, 2001 and March 21, 2001
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2001
Towel and Linen Service, for the
Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 28501.
Toro Mower Parts, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 474-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 17, 2000.
March 21, 2001 and March 28, 2001
THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 2001
East 40th Street - Phase III: Superior Avenue to South Marginal
Road, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1587-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, November 27, 2000.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
March 21, 2001 and March 28, 2001
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2001
Kurruish Park Storm Water Project,
for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1081-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MARCH
29, 2001, 10:30 A.M., AT THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO.
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
Medical Supplies, for the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
as authorized by Ordinance No.

March 21, 2001
582-99, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 7,
1999.
Labor and Materials to Repair MSA
Breathing Apparatus, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1875-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 11, 2000.
Grinding of Pavement, for the Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1681-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, November 27, 2000.
Two (2) Trailers, for the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
867-99, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 14,
1999.
March 21, 2001 and March 28, 2001
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2001
Upgrade
of
HVACRemote
Panel
Units, for the Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1269-27, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 18, 1998.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, APRIL 5,
2001, 9:00 A.M., AT CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT ENGINEERING OFFICES,
19501 FIVE POINTS (AND CARGO) ROAD. THOUGH NOT MANDATORY,
ATTENDANCE
IS
STRONGLY
ENCOURAGED;
AS
THIS
WILL
BE
THE
ONLY
OPPORTUNITY FOR PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS TO COMMUNICATE
DIRECTLY
WITH
DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
PERSONNEL.
March 21, 2001 and March 28, 2001
THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 2001
Telemetry System Installation, for
the Division of Water Pollution
Control,
Department
of
Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2682-90, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, APRIL 5,
2001, 10:00 A.M., AT THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
March 21, 2001 and March 28, 2001
FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 2001
Replacement of Existing Tug Road
Project, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control.
BID PACKAGES WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM THE DIVISION OF
PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, ROOM 128.

The City Record
A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY
ORDER
ONLY
IS
REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS. PACKAGE INCLUDES
PLANS,
TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS, GENERAL AND
CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS
AND ANY ADDENDA.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, APRIL
4, 2001, 10:00 A.M. TO 12:00 NOON
IN THE ENGINEERING BUILDING (PMT CONFERENCE ROOM),
19501
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135. ALL
QUESTIONS MUST BE FAXED
TO PETER MAYER AT (216) 6642177.
PROJECT
DETAILS:
DEMOLISH
EXISTING TUG ROAD, APPROXIMATELY 1,500' X
25'
WIDE
ASPHALT PAVEMENT, AND REPLACE
IT
WITH
APPROXIMATELY 1,500' X 25' WIDE CONCRETE PAVEMENT. THE BASE
IS TO BE REPLACED, AND THE
CONTRACTOR IS TO FOLLOW
SWPPP
REQUIREMENTS
AS
MANDATED BY THE OEPA AND
INDICATED IN THE BID PACKAGE. MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC WILL BE REQUIRED 24
HOURS IN THE CONSTRUCTION
AREA
THROUGH
THE
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD.
March 21, 2001 and March 28, 2001

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 401-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Cintron.
An emergency resolution strongly
urging the Cleveland Board of Education and Barbara Byrd-Bennett to
immediately help to resolve the service needs and issues of Xavier
Peguero so that he may be considered
for
a
full
scholarship
to
Hawken School.
Whereas, Xavier Peguero is a visually impaired student at Carl F. Shuler
Middle School in Cleveland; and
Whereas, in October, 2000, Xavier
was recommended by a counselor at
Shuler Middle School to take the test
for the Leitch Scholarship; and
Whereas, the Leitch Scholarship
enables four
schools
(Hathaway
Brown School, Hawken School, Laurel School and University School) to
expand their regular programs of
financial aid through the addition of
a limited number of scholarships to
residents of Cleveland and East
Cleveland entering grade 9 or 10 and
who require financial assistance of
at least one-half tuition; and
Whereas, in January, 2001, Hawken
School informed Shuler Middle School
that it is considering offering Xavier
a full scholarship, but that more
information was necessary as to
Xavier’s special needs; and
Whereas, Xavier’s needs include
transportation, mobility orientation
and Braille services; and
Whereas, the Sight Center of
Greater Cleveland has generously
offered
to
provide
Xavier
with
Braille services and mobility orientation training; and
Whereas, the Cleveland School district has apparently determined that

539

39
it will not provide any services to
Xavier at Hawken School; and
Whereas, other service needs of
Xavier must be resolved before
Hawken School is willing to provide
Xavier the scholarship, however,
Cleveland School district is refusing
to help in any way to resolve these
issues; and
Whereas, it is unconscionable that
the Cleveland Board of Education
and
Barbara
Byrd-Bennett
have
failed to comply with the contingency on the scholarship offered to
Xavier, thus abolishing this welldeserving student the chance to
receive a high-quality education at
a renowned Cleveland area high
school
despite
being
visually
impaired; and
Whereas, Hawken School has set
a deadline of March 15, 2001 to
resolve these issues, or Xavier will
not receive the scholarship; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland hereby strongly
urges the Cleveland Board of Education and Barbara Byrd-Bennett to
immediately help to resolve the service needs and issues of Xavier
Peguero so that he may be considered
for
a
full
scholarship
to
Hawken School.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution Barbara Byrd-Bennett and all members
of the Cleveland Board of Education.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.

Res. No. 457-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An
emergency
resolution
withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 819 Jefferson Avenue, 1st Fl.,
and repealing Res. No. 2168-2000
objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 819 Jefferson Avenue, 1st Fl. by Res. No. 21682000 adopted by Council November
27, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 819 Jefferson
Avenue, 1st Fl., be and the same is

40
hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 21682000, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer of ownership
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Res. No. 458-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution requesting and urging Ohio state legislators
to change the speed limit to 35 miles
per hour on St. Clair Avenue, Euclid
Avenue, Ivanhoe Road and East
152nd Street in Ward 10 in the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, traffic congestion on St.
Clair Avenue, Euclid Avenue, Ivanhoe Road and East 152nd has
increased enormously in the past
several years; and
Whereas, the number of safety
signals has increased in the past
twenty years on the above-mentioned four-lane roadways; and
Whereas, the area in question is
non-residential; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby requests and urges Ohio state
legislators to change the speed limit
to 35 miles per hour on St. Clair
Avenue, Euclid Avenue, Ivanhoe
Road and East 152nd Street in Ward
10 in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby directed to
transmit certified copies of this resolution to all Cleveland area state
senators and representatives.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.

Res. No. 459-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 8701
Lake Avenue, and repealing Res. No.
1350-2000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 8701 Lake Avenue by Res.
No. 1350-2000 adopted by Council on
July 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

The City Record
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 8701 Lake Avenue, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Res.
No. 1350-2000, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Res. No. 460-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An
emergency
resolution
withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 7602
Madison Avenue, 1st Fl. & Bsmt., and
repealing Res. No. 1353-2000 objecting
to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 7602 Madison Avenue, 1st
Fl. & Bsmt. by Res. No. 1353-2000
adopted by Council on July 28, 2000;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 7602 Madison Avenue, 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 1353-2000,
containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Res. No. 461-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution supporting the proposed Glenville Elderly
II Housing Tax Credit Development
for the development and construction of affordable housing through
the use of tax credits from the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency.

540

March 21, 2001
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing credits for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, the Glenville Elderly II
Housing Tax Credit Development is
a proposed project of a maximum of
48 units for the elderly to be located on East 103rd St. immediately
north of St. Clair Avenue in Ward 8
of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, up to thirty percent
(30%) of the units will be market
rate units and the below market
rate units will be affordable to
those people who make less than
60% of the Area Median Gross
Income (AMGI); and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland supports the Glenville
Elderly II Housing Tax Credit
Development for the construction of
affordable housing for the elderly
for the benefit of the citizens of
Cleveland;
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City
of
Cleveland
supports
the
Glenville Elderly II Housing Tax
Credit Development for the construction of affordable housing for
the elderly on East 103rd Street
immediately north of St. Clair Avenue through use of housing tax
credits
from
the
Ohio
Housing
Finance Agency.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Res. No. 462-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal of Gardner Evergreen, L.P. to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for
the use of low-income housing tax
credits.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing credits for affordable housing developments throughout Ohio
using a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Gardner Evergreen, L.P.
plans to construct 7 town homes to
be located adjacent to 12003 Ashbury Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio and 6
town homes to be located at 991
East 123rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio
in the Glenville/Foresthills neighborhoods of Cleveland, Ohio and to
acquire and rehabilitate a 10 unit
multifamily
building
located
at
12003 Ashbury Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio (the “Gardner Evergreen Project”); and
Whereas, 30% of the units will
have market rate rents and the
remaining units will have rents
affordable to those at 44% of the
area median gross income; and

March 21, 2001
Whereas, 20% of the twenty three
units will serve a special needs population, specifically households with
incomes at or below 35% of the area
median gross income; and
Whereas,
Gardner
Evergreen’s
proposal will benefit the citizens of
the City; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby declares its support of the proposal of Gardner Evergreen, L.P. to
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency
for the use of low-income housing
tax credits.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution to the Executive Director of the
Northeastern
Neighborhood
Development Corporation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Ord. No. 2121-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon.
An
ordinance
authorizing
the
transfer of the franchise and steam
system
from
Cleveland
Thermal
Energy Corporation and IPALCO
Enterprises, Inc. and Mid-America
Resources, Inc., the wholly-owned
subsidiary of IPALCO Enterprises,
Inc. to Dominion Cleveland Thermal,
LLC and its operating affiliates:
Dominion Cleveland Thermal Generaltion, LLC, Dominion Cleveland
Thermal Steam Distribution, LLC;
and Dominion Cleveland Thermal
Chilled
Water
Distribution,
LLC
(hereinafter collectively referred to
as “Dominion Cleveland Thermal,
Inc.”) and to amend Sections 1, 5,
and 6 of the franchise agreement
with Cleveland Thermal Energy
Corporation,
authorized
by
Ordinance No. 2909-87, passed December
21, 1987, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1595-89, passed June 19, 1989, and
Ordinance No. 1490-91, passed July
24, 1991, and to recognize the transfer of franchise and to allow Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. to construct, install, maintain and operate
a system for the transmission and
supplying of steam and hot water
for district heating, cooling and
power purposes in, under, over,
along, across and upon certain
streets, public rights of way and
public grounds of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas,
Cleveland
Thermal
Energy Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the “Grantee”), which is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Catalyst
Thermal Energy Corporation, now
known as United Thermal Corporation, was granted a non-exclusive
franchise to construct, install, maintain and operate a system for the
transmission
and
supplying
of

The City Record
steam and hot water in, under, over,
along, across and upon certain of
the streets, public rights of way,
and public grounds of the City of
Cleveland by Ordinance No. 2909-87,
passed December 21, 1987, and effective January 30, 1988; and
Whereas, the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and the terms of the
franchise
agreement
allow
this
Council to authorize an amendment
to said franchise agreement by ordinance; and
Whereas, the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and the terms of the
franchise
agreement
allow
this
Council to authorize an amendment
to said franchise agreement by ordinance; and
Whereas,
Cleveland
Thermal
Energy
Corporation
sought
and
obtained by Ordinance No. 1595-89,
passed June 19, 1989, amendments to
its franchise agreement to permit it
to construct, install, maintain, and
operate a system for the transmission and supplying of chilled water
for district cooling purposes in the
same manner and pursuant to the
same terms and conditions as contained in its existing franchise
agreement for steam and hot water
supply and transmission; and Cleveland Thermal Energy Corporation
sought and obtained by Ordinance
No. 1490-91, passed July 24, 1991
approval of the transfer of Grantee
from Catalyst Thermal Energy Corporation (now known as United
Thermal Corporation) to Mid-America Energy Resources, Inc.; and
Whereas,
Cleveland
Thermal
Energy Corporation and IPALCO
Enterprises, Inc. and Mid-America
Energy Resources, Inc. the whollyowned subsidiary of IPALCO Enterprises, Inc. are seeking to transfer
the franchise and the Steam System,
as defined herein, to Dominion
Cleveland Thermal, Inc.;
Now, therefore, be it ordained by
the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 6 of the Cleveland Thermal Energy Corporation
(“Grantee”) franchise, which was
granted by Ordinance No. 2909-87,
passed December 21, 1987, effective
January 30, 1988, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1595-89, passed June
19, 1989, and Ordinance No. 1490-91,
passed July 24, 1991, Council hereby
approves the transfer of the franchise of the Grantee and the Steam
System, as defined herein, from MidAmerica
Energy
Resources,
Inc.,
which is a wholly-owned subsidiary
of IPALCO Enterprises, Inc., to
Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc.,
an Ohio corporation, which is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy, Inc.
Section 2. That Sections 1, 5, and
6 of the franchise granted to Cleveland Thermal Energy Corporation,
an Ohio corporation (the “Grantee”),
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Catalyst Thermal Energy Corporation
(now known as United Thermal Corporation), by Ordinance No. 2909-87,
passed December 21, 1987, as amended by Ordinance No. 1595-89, passed
June 19, 1989, and Ordinance No.
1490-91, passed July 24, 1991, are
hereby amended, to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 1. Grant of Franchise.
Pursuant to the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
(hereinafter
referred to as the “City”), and subject to the terms and conditions set

541

41
forth herein, Dominion Cleveland
Thermal, LLC and its operating affiliates: Dominion Cleveland Thermal Generaltion, LLC, Dominion
Cleveland Thermal Steam Distribution, LLC; and Dominion Cleveland
Thermal Chilled Water Distribution,
LLC
(hereinafter
collectively
referred to as “Dominion Cleveland
Thermal, Inc.” and/or the “Grantee”), is hereby granted a non-exclusive franchise, until December 31,
2020, unless sooner terminated as
provided herein, to construct, install,
maintain and operate a system for
the transmission and supplying of
steam and water for heating, cooling and power purposes (the “Steam
System”) in the area of the City
identified in the map contained in
File No. 2909-87-A and incorporated
herein by reference and as expanded or extended within the boundaries of the City (such area is hereafter referred to as the “Service
Area”) in, under, over, along, across
and upon the streets and public
grounds (which term includes but is
not limited to the streets, lanes,
alleys,
avenues,
easements
and
other public thoroughfares and public rights of way of the City in the
Service Area) in that Service Area,
with the full and necessary privileges for the use of the streets and
public grounds in the Service Area
for the purpose of digging a trench
or trenches, and constructing, installing, maintaining and operating
pipes and conduits therein for steam
and water lines, together with the
right to maintain said pipes and
conduits therein, for the purpose of
transmitting
therein
steam
and
water
for
heating,
cooling
and
power purposes (such purposes are
hereinafter referred to as “Steam
Service”), and to construct, install
and maintain all necessary insulators, valves, safety appliances, connections, manholes and other appurtenances necessary or appropriate to
the operation of the Steam System.
The
Steam
System
of
Grantee
extends from and includes the existing and future steam generation and
heating or cooling water plants of
Grantee and the existing and future
transmission and distribution system extending to the property line
of each customer, except where otherwise
defined
by
agreement
between Grantee and a particular
customer. The grant of this franchise does not establish priority or
lack of priority for use of the streets
and public grounds to Grantee over
other present or future permit holders or franchises, or over the City's
own use. Any extension or expansion of the Steam System shall be
subject to all of the obligations and
reserved rights in favor of the City
set forth herein, and shall be subject to all of the conditions of this
franchise.
Section 1A. Transfer Fee.
Grantee shall pay to the City fifty
thousand
dollars
($50,000.00)
no
later than thirty (30) days after the
effective date of this Ordinance.
Failure to pay this amount in full
by the date specified shall cause
Grantee to be deemed to have rejected this franchise, and the rights and
privileges
herein
granted
shall
cease and terminate, unless said
period is extended by Council by
ordinance duly passed for that purpose and before the expiration of
said period of thirty (30) days. The

The City Record

42
payment required herein shall be
directed to the Salvation Army’s
“People Helping People Fuel Fund”.
Section 1B. Contributions.
Grantee shall donate to a fund the
following amounts to be held by the
Cleveland Foundation and to be
restricted to and used for the sole
purpose of acquisition, construction
and maintenance of urban parks
located in the City of Cleveland by
the Cleveland Metroparks, including
but not limited to land and property interest acquisition, path and/or
trail development, and other improvements necessary and incidental to public parks in the City:
2001-2005
2006-2010
2011-2015
2016-2020

$ 75,000
$100,000
$125,000
$150,000

per
per
per
per

year
year
year
year

Provided,
however,
that
the
$75,000 donation by the Grantee for
Year 2001 shall be directed to the
Salvation Army’s
“People Helping
People Fuel Fund”. This donation
for Year 2001 may be forwarded
directly to the Salvation Army by
Grantee or may be forwarded to the
Cleveland Foundation for distribution to the Salvation Army’s “People
Helping People Fuel Fund”.
In addition to the annual contributions provided herein, Grantee
shall perform all labor and incur all
costs necessary to connect the City’s
Police Headquarters to the Grantee’s
steam and chilled water system. Further, grantee shall discount the City
of Cleveland’s steamed and chilled
water bill monthly according to the
following schedule, with a maximum
discount to the City by Grantee of
$75,000 per year:
2001-2005
2006-2010
2011-2015
2016-2020

1%
2%
3%
4%

credit
credit
credit
credit

Within forty-five (45) days of the
effective date of this ordinance, the
Council President and the Cleveland
Foundation shall establish an advisory board or committee that shall
consist of two (2) members appointed by the Council President and one
(1) member appointed by the Executive Director of the Cleveland
Foundation to determine the projects
to be funded. Documentation of the
fund and its expenditures shall be
furnished to the Clerk of Council.
Section 5. Operation, Service and
Rates of the Steam System
A. Service Connections and Deliv ery of Steam Service. Grantee shall,
so far as the capacity of its plant
will allow, deliver steam or water to
any person or entity requesting
Steam Service who complies with its
reasonable regulations and whose
property abuts upon its service lines
(“Customer”) At the point of delivery, the steam will be dry and saturated in accordance with the steam
table established by American Society
of
Mechanical
Engineers
(“ASME”). The Grantee shall be
responsible
to
maintain,
at
its
expense, all mains and lines up to
the property line of the customer’s
facility, except where otherwise set
forth in an agreement between
Grantee and a particular customer,
and shall keep such lines in sound
operating condition and free of
undue leakage.

B. Abandonment of Service. In the
event Grantee makes an application
to the PUCO to abandon service to
any part or all of its Service Area,
Grantee shall send a copy of any
such application to each of its then
existing customers.
C. Existing Rates. All valid contracts or agreements establishing
rates, charges or billing arrangements
between
customers
and
Grantee (including but not limited
to agreements combining billings
for one or more premises owned or
operated by a customer) in effect
as of the effective date of this ordinance, shall remain in effect until
the expiration of the contract or
agreement as set forth in such contract or agreement (or as may have
been extended by PUCO order),
except
as
may
be allowed
or
required by any Court or arbitration panel, or as agreed by Customer and Grantee. All tariff and
contract rates for Steam Service in
effect as of the effective date of
this ordinance, shall, except for
fuel adjustment clause increases
and authorized by the PUCO or in
accordance with Ohio law, remain
in effect through December 31,
2020.
D. Rates and Charges. If the
Grantee and any Customer cannot
agree on a contract which sets rates
for Steam Service to that Customer,
the rates and charges for Steam Service rendered by Grantee for such
customer or customers shall be set
by the Public Utilities Commission
of Ohio, by Council, or as otherwise
may be provided by law. During the
term of this franchise, Grantee
shall, upon the request of the City
or Council, provide such data and
information as the City reasonably
requires
to
review
the
rates,
charges, terms and conditions of
Steam Service provided by Grantee.
Nothing contained in the subparagraph shall be deemed a waiver of
the Grantee to appeal to or seek
review of PUCO in connection with
any rates.
E. Contract Rates. Grantee may
enter into contracts for the provision
of Steam Service to one or more of
its customers provided that said contracts are entered into pursuant to
the requirements of the Revised
Code or filed with the PUCO pursuant to the terms of Section 4905.31
of the Revised Code and provided
that copies of all contracts for
Steam Service are provided to the
Clerk of Council of the City to be
maintained in the above-mentioned
file, with copies provided to the
Director of Law of the City.
F. Study of Service During OffPeak Hours. In order to study ways
to promote the use of convention,
hotel and entertainment facilities in
downtown Cleveland in the evening
and weekend hours, and in order to
consider whether the lower cost of
Steam Service during said hours can
be economically justified in connection with separate rate provisions
during such period, Council herein
directs Grantee to provide, no later
than July 1, 2001, a full report to
Council analyzing the feasibility of
instituting reduced rates for offpeak Steam Service usage and the
costs of providing Steam Service
during off-peak hours.
G. Quality of Service. The Grantee
shall at all times provide safe, adequate and reliable service to its customers and shall, except as may oth-

542

March 21, 2001
erwise be permitted by law, provide
same without discrimination. In so
doing, Grantee shall maintain the
Steam System in a manner to ensure
such service and to ensure the efficient and safe operation of the
Steam System. Grantee shall maintain the Steam System so as to avoid
substantial
leakage,
and
shall
promptly repair material leaks in
the Steam System. Grantee shall
also promptly repair any pavement,
tree law, curb or other portion of the
street or public ground which is
damaged by Grantee or due to
defects in or leaks in or emanating
from the Steam System. If there is
any dispute between Grantee and a
Customer as to whether the Grantee
or Customer is responsible to repair
damage in the streets or public
grounds caused by Grantee or due
to defects or leaks in the Steam System, Grantee shall promptly make
any necessary repairs pending resolution of such dispute. The cost of
such repairs may be part of any
such resolution, and may be charged
to the customer if it is determined
that the repairs were the responsibility of the customer. The Grantee
acknowledges its obligation to operate and maintain the Steam System
so that it is not in such condition as
to be a hazard to the health, safety
or
welfare
of
the
public,
and
acknowledges the right of the City
to reasonably require the Grantee to
make necessary repairs or improvements
to
abate
said
condition.
Grantee shall promptly comply with
an order of the Director of the
appropriate department of the City
having custody and control of the
particular property or the responsibility to ensure the health, safety or
welfare of the public in the particular situation to make any such
repairs or improvements.
H. Minority Business Enterprise
and Female Business Enterprise
Participation and Affirmative Ac tion business
Grantee shall use its best efforts
to meet the goals of the City in
effect on the effective date of this
ordinance with respect to minority
enterprise participation and female
business
enterprise
participation,
i.e., thirty percent (30%) and ten
percent
(10%),
respectively,
in
Grantee’s proposed construction for
the improvement and expansion of
the Steam System; provided, that in
evaluating Grantee’s efforts to meet
such goals, the City shall give consideration to the availability of certain specialty items of equipment
for the aforesaid system that are not
readily available from minority and
female vendors.
Grantee shall adhere to the standards set forth in division (a) of
Section 187.04 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, as presently in
effect with respect to nondiscrimination in employment, and shall use
its best efforts to improve the percentage of minority and female
employment in the various occupations involved in the performance of
the Grantee’s business.
Section 6. Transfers and Assign ments.
The franchise granted to the
Grantee herein shall not be transferable either directly or indirectly
except with the consent of Council.
Grantee shall not, without consent
of Council, either directly or indirectly consolidate, merge or in any
other way give or permit control of

March 21, 2001
the management of its business to
or by any other heating, cooling or
power company now operating or
that may hereafter operate in the
City, including any company which
would by such action by Grantee
first enter into the business of providing heating, cooling or power,
nor shall Grantee assign or transfer
so much of the assets of the Steam
System so as to render Grantee
unable to continue providing adequate service as required herein.
The provisions of this section do not
apply to the Grantee’s parent corporation,
Dominion
Energy,
Inc.,
except that such parent shall not
directly or indirectly sell or transfer
control of the Grantee or the Steam
System in any manner which would
be prohibited if done by Grantee
itself as set forth above without
approval of Council, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Grantee may, without the consent of
Council, be transferred to any corporation which is wholly owned,
directly or indirectly, by Dominion
Energy, Inc., or be consolidated or
merged with, or have control of
Grantee’s
Management
given
or
transferred
to,
any
corporation
which
is
wholly
owned,
either
directly or indirectly by Dominion
Energy, Inc.
Section 3. After the effective date
of this Ordinance and within thirty
days thereof, this Ordinance shall be
accepted by the Grantee by, (a) both
its filing with the Clerk of Council
an unconditional written acceptance
hereof, and (b) an affidavit of an
officer of Grantee with supporting
documentation
evidencing
that
Cleveland Thermal Energy Corporation has transferred to Dominion
Cleveland Thermal, Inc, the franchise and the Steam System and all
material rights, title, and interests
necessary for the operation of the
system to Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. and that Grantee has
obtained PUCO approval for said
transfer, which shall be included in
File No. 2121-2000-A. A failure of the
Grantee to accept this Ordinance in
the manner described above within
said period of time shall be deemed
a rejection hereof by the Grantee,
and the rights and privileges herein granted shall, after the expiration
of said period of thirty days, if not
so accepted, absolutely cease and
terminate, unless said period of time
is extended by Council by ordinance
duly passed for that purpose and
before the expiration of said period
of thirty days.
Section 4. That this Ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective April 21, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 2271-2000.
By Councilmen Robinson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3418 East 132nd
Street
to
Mt.
Pleasant
Baptist
Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facili-

The City Record
tate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 130-08-029,
as more fully described in Section 2
below,
to
Mt.
Pleasant
Baptist
Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 130-08-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 2 in the Kinsman Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 446 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 44 of
Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County
Records, bounded and described as
follows: Beginning in the Westerly
line of East 132nd Street at a point
distant Northerly 84.50 feet measured along said Westerly line of
East 132nd Street from its intersection with the Northerly line of Kinsman Road S.E., thence Northerly
along said Westerly line of East
132nd Street 72.48 feet to an iron pin
set in the Northeasterly corner of
Sublot No. 2; thence Westerly along
the Northerly line of Sublot No. 2 as
aforesaid 52.50 feet to an iron pin
set in the Northwesterly corner of
Sublot No. 2; thence Southerly along
the Westerly line of Sublot No. 2 a
distance of 74.48 feet to a point;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 2, 20.0
feet to a point; thence Easterly in a
direct line about 32.56 feet to the
place of beginning.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Direc-

543

43
tor of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Ord. No. 303-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-023 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the
Southerly 16 8/12 feet front and
rear off Sublot No. 22 and the
Northerly 16 8/12 feet front and 18
11/12 feet on the rear off Sublot No.
23 of W. and L. Brooker’s Subdivision of a part of Original Lot No.
336. Said parts of said Sublots Nos.
22 and 23 together form a parcel of
land having a frontage of 33 4/12
feet on the Westerly side of Brooker Avenue, (now East 76th Street),
and extending back about 192 feet
deep and is 35 7/12 feet wide in the

44
rear, as appears by said plat, of
said subdivision recorded in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-008 as
more fully described below to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
34 and the Westerly 6 feet 4 inches
of Sublot No. 33, and together forming a parcel of land 46 feet 4 inches front on the Northerly side of
Central Avenue, and extending back
of equal width 140 feet, in the H.C.
Sterling
Subdivision
of
Cottage
Neighborhood Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
336, as recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County
Records, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-010 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 1 in John Bartlett’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 336 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 19 of Maps,
Page
26
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Central
Avenue, S.E., and extending back of
equal width 133.66 feet deep on the
Easterly line and 134.44 feet deep
on the Westerly Avenue, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-032 as
more fully described to Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc., or designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 20 feet of Sublot No. 15
and the Northerly 15 feet of Sublot
No. 16 in William and Lewis Brook-

The City Record
er’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land 35 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 76th Street
(formerly Brooker Avenue), and
extending back of equal width 192
feet 1-1/2 inches, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-033 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 30 feet of Sublot No. 15 in
William and Lewis Brooker’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 30 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 76th Street
(formerly
Brooker
Avenue)
and
extending back of equal width
about 192 feet, 1-1/2 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-26-009 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-26-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly part of Sublot No. 7 in the S.L.
Severance Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
336, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 36 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E., (formerly Garden Street), at its point of intersection with the Westerly line of East
79th
Street
(formerly
Jaynes
Avenue); thence Westerly along
said
Northerly
line
of
Central
Avenue, S.E., 108 feet 9-1/4 inches;
thence Northerly 51 feet 7-1/4 inches to a point on the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 7 distant Westerly 109 feet 6-3/4 inches (measured
along said Northerly line of Sublot
No. 7) from the Westerly line of
East 79th Street; thence Easterly
along the said Northerly line of
Sublot No. 7, 109 feet 6-3/4 inches to
the Westerly line of East 79th
Street; thence Southerly along said

544

March 21, 2001
Westerly line of East 79th Street, 49
feet 5 inches to the place of beginning according to a survey made
August 1919 by H.W. Hecker, Surveyor, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell Permanent Parcel No. 118-26-010 as more
fully described below, to Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc., or designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-26-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 33 feet 4 inches from front
to rear of Sublot No. 6 in S.L. Severance Subdivision, of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 4 of Maps, Page 36, of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 33
feet 4 inches front on the Westerly
side of East 79th Street, (formerly
Jaynes
Avenue),
and
extending
back of equal width 150 feet deep to
the Easterly line of a 12 foot alley,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel, No. 118-26-011 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-26-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 16 feet 8 inches front and
rear of Sublot No. 5 and the Northerly 16 feet 8 inches front and rear of
Sublot No. 6 in the S.L. Severance’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 36 of Cuyahoga County
Records and together forming a parcel of land 33 feet 4 inches front on
the Westerly side of East 79th Street
(formerly
Jaynes
Avenue)
and
extending back of equal width 150
feet to the Easterly line of a 12 foot
alley as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1975, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-26-012 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

March 21, 2001
P. P. No. 118-26-012
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 33 feet 4 inches of Sublot
No. 5 in S.L. Severance’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 336 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
36
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 33 feet 4 inches
front on the Westerly side of East
79th
Street
(formerly
Jaynes
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 150 feet to the Easterly
line of a 12 foot alley, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-26-013 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-26-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
4 in S.L. Severance’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 336, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 36 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 50 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 79th Street, (formerly
East Madison Avenue) and extending back of equal width 50 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-024 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 33 1/3 feet of Sublot No.
22 in W. and L. Brooker’s Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 33 1/3 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
76th Street, and extending back of
equal width about 192 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-026 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.

The City Record
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
20 in W. and L. Brooker’s Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 as shown by
the recorded plat of said Subdivision
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and having a frontage of 50 feet on the
Westerly side of East 76th Street
(formerly
Brooker
Avenue)
and
extending back between parallel
lines 192 feet 1 1/2 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-027 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 35 feet of Sublot No. 19
in William and Lewis Brooker’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said part of
Sublot No. 19 has a frontage of 35
feet on the Westerly side of East
76th
Street
(formerly
Brooker
Street) and extends back between
parallel lines about 192 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
level highways.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Perm Parcel No. 118-24-028 as more
fully described below, to Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc., or designee.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the
Southerly 20 feet of Sublot No. 18
and the Northerly 15 feet of Sublot
No. 19 in William and Lewis Brooker’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 46 of Cuyahoga
County
Records,
together
forming parcel of land 35 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
76th
Street
(formerly
Brooker
Street), and extending back of
equal width 192 feet 1 1/2 inches
as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less but subject to
all legal highways.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

545

45
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-26-017 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland
Housing
Network.
Inc.,
designee.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-26-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State Ohio,
and known as being a part of a part
of Sub Lot No. One (1) in S. L. Severance’s Subdivision, of a part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No,
336, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Subdivision in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 36 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 79th Street (formerly East
Madison Avenue), at the Northwest
corner of said Sublot No. 1; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
East 79th Street, 25 feet to the center of the Easterly line of said Sublot
No. 1; thence Westerly parallel with
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 1; 150
feet to the Easterly line of a 12 foot
alley; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of said 12 foot alley,
about 29 feet to a point in the
Northerly line of S. L. Severance’s
Subdivision at the Northwest corner
of said Sublot No. 1; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 1, 150 feet 1 inch to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-26-023 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-26-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
20 in Fenton and Cody’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 336, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 15 of Maps,
Page
35
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being a parcel of land
40 feet front on the Westerly side of
East 79th Street, (formerly East
Madison Avenue) and extending
back of equal width 140 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-061 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.

46
53 in M.B. Sterling Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 336, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 40
of Cuyahoga County Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-064 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being the
Westerly 35 feet front and rear of
Sublot No. 56 in M. B. Sterling’s
Allotment of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 336, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
40
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 35 feet front on
the Northerly side of Chamberlain
Avenue, S.E. and extending back of
equal width 128 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.
Further
subject
to
Restriction from Marianne B. Sterling to Selina Paul, dated November 1, 1882, recorded in Volume 342,
Page 32 and conveying premises in
caption and more land.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-065 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 57 and the Easterly 5 feet
of Sublot No. 56 in the M. B. Sterling’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 45 feet on the Northerly
side of Chamberlain Avenue, S.E.,
and extending back between parallel lines 126 feet deep, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-073 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland
Housing
Network,
Inc.,
designee.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 118-33-073
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 41 in M. B. Sterling’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows: Beginning on the Southerly line of Chamberlain Avenue,
S.E., at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 41; thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Chamberlain Avenue, S.E., 40 feet 8
inches to the Northeasterly corner
of Sublot No. 41; thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of Sublot No.
41, 121 feet to a Northeasterly corner of Parker Court, S.E.; thence
Westerly along a Northerly line of
Parker Court, S.E., 20 feet to an
angle; thence Southerly along a
Westerly line of Parker Court, S.E.,
7 feet to an angle; thence Westerly
along a Northerly line of Parker
Court, S.E., 20 feet 8 inches to the
Southwesterly corner of Sublot No.
41; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of Sublot No. 41, 128 feet
to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-077 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-077
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub-lot
No. 45 in M. B. Sterling’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 336, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
40
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Subject
to
restrictions
recorded in Volume 341, Page 268 of
Cuyahoga County Records. Also subject to zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-079 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
47 in M.B. Sterling’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 336 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
40 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Chamberlain Avenue, S.E.,
and extending back of equal width
128 feet to Parker Court, S.E., as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

546

March 21, 2001
Subject to restrictions and easements contained in deed recorded in
Volume 341, Page 196, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-080 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly part of Sublot No. 48 in M.B.
Sterling’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 336
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 40 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 34 feet
front on the Southerly side of Chamberlain Avenue, S.E., and extending
back of equal width 128 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-33-081 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-33-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 53 in Ms. B. Sterling’s Allotment
of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
336 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 40 of
Cuyahoga County Records, as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-006 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 2, 3 and 5 in Fenton,
Robinson and Rose’s Re-Subdivision
of Sara T. Fenton’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 336, as shown by the recorded plat of said Re-Subdivision in
Volume 4 of Maps, Page 45 of Cuyahoga County Records and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E. (formerly Garden Street) as a point 24 feet West-

March 21, 2001
erly measured along said Southerly
line from the Northeasterly corner of
said Sublot No. 2; thence Easterly,
along the Southerly line of Central
Avenue, S.E. 33 feet; thence Southerly on a line parallel to the Easterly line of said Sub-lot No. 2 about
153 feet 10 inches to the Northerly
line of Sub-lot No. 6 in said Re-subdivision; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of said Sub-lot No. 6,
33 feet; thence Northerly about 153
feet 10 inches to the place of beginning.
Also subject to zoning ordinance,
if any.
Section 51. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-26-002 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-26-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 43 in the Patterson and
Bill’s Subdivision of part of Original Newburgh Township Lot No.
329, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Subdivision in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 47 of Cuyahoga County Records; and also part of Sublot
No. 14, in the Fairbanks Subdivision of part of Original Newburgh
Township Lot No. 330, as shown by
the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 50
of Cuyahoga County Records and
together bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Northeasterly
line of Colfax Road, S.E., at the
most Southerly corner of said Sublot
No. 43; thence Northeasterly along
the Southeasterly line of said Sublot
No. 43 and said line, extended a distance of 150 feet to a point; thence
Northwesterly parallel with Colfax
Road, S.E., 50 feet to a point in the
Northwesterly line of said Sublot No.
43; thence Southwesterly along the
Northwesterly line of said Sublot No.
43, 150 feet to the Northeasterly line
of Colfax Road, S.E.; thence Southeasterly along the Northeasterly line
of Colfax Road, S.E., 50 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 53. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-26-006 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-26-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Southwesterly 212.89 feet of Sublot No. 40
in Patterson and Bill’s Subdivision
of Part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 329 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,

The City Record
Page
47
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 55. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-26-007 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-26-007
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
39 in the Patterson and Bill Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 329, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 47 of Cuyahoga County
Records, beginning at the Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 39;
thence Northwesterly 63.9 feet on
the Northeasterly line of Colfax
Road; thence Northeasterly 212.89
feet; thence Southeasterly to the
Northeasterly corner of said Sublot;
thence Southwesterly 212.89 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 57. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-26-060 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 58. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-26-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: Being part of Sublot No. 16 in
A.W.
Fairbank’s
Subdivision
of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 330 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
50 of Cuyahoga County Records
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northeasterly
line of Colfax Road, S.E (50 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
Easterly line of said A.W. Fairbank’s Subdivision; thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly
line of Colfax Road, S.E. 192.38 feet
to the principal place of beginning
of the parcel of land herein intended to be described; thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly
line of Colfax Road, S.E. 35 feet;
thence Northeasterly along a line
at right angles to said Northeasterly line of Colfax Road, S.E. 166
feet to the Southwesterly line of
land conveyed to the Cleveland and
Youngstown Railroad Company by
deed dated August 19, 1914, and
recorded in Volume 1630, Page 323
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
thence Southeasterly along said
Southwesterly line of land conveyed to the Cleveland Youngstown
Railroad Company, 35 feet; thence
Southwesterly along a line at right
angles to said Northeasterly line of

547

47
Colfax Road, S.E. 166 feet to the
principal place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 59. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-013 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 60. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
30 in Sebastian Fieg’s Allotment of
a part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 330, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
60
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being Forty (40) feet
front on the Northeasterly side of
Colfax Street and 150 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways. Also subject to zoning
ordinances.
Section 61. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-020 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 62. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
17 in S. Fieg’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
330, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 60 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Southwesterly side of Colfax Road S.E.
(formerly Colfax Street), and extending back between parallel lines
150 feet to an alley, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 63. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-27-022 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 64. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-27-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
15 in S. Fieg’s Allotment of a part
of Original Lot No. 330 in Newburgh
Township being 40 feet front on Colfax Street now Colfax Road S.E.,
and 150 feet deep to an alley,
according to the recorded plat of

48
said allotment in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
60,
in
Cuyahoga
County
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 65. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-037 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 66. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 112 in Charles Leavitt
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 327 and 330
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
31
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Minnie Avenue, S.E., (formerly Northeast Street) at the most
Westerly corner of said Sublot No.
112, thence Southeasterly along the
Southwesterly line of said Sublot No.
112, 140 feet; thence Northeasterly
parallel with the Southeasterly line
of Minnie Avenue, S.E., 30 feet to the
Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 112;
thence
Northwesterly
along
the
Northeasterly line of said Sublot No.
112, 140 feet to the Southeasterly
line of Minnie Avenue, S.E.; thence
Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of Minnie Avenue, S.E., 30
feet to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 67. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-038 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 68. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 111 in Charles Leavitt’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 327 and 330
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 30
feet front on the Southeasterly side
of Minnie Avenue, S.E., and extending back of equal width 140 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 69. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-039 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.

The City Record
Section 70. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Northwesterly 140 feet of Sublot No. 110
in Charles Leavitt’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 327 and 330, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Southeasterly side of Minnie
Avenue, S.E., (formerly Northeast
Avenue) and extending back of
equal
width
140
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat.
Section 71. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-040 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 72. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 140 feet of Sublot No. 109 in
Charles Leavitt’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 327 and 330 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
31
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Easterly side of Minnie Avenue
S.E., (formerly Northeast Avenue)
and extending back of equal width
140 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 73. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-041 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 74. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a Sublot
No. 108 in Charles Leavitt’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 327 and 330, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 30 feet
front on the Easterly side of Minnie
Avenue (50 feet wide), 240.42 feet
deep on the Northerly line, 259.75
feet deep on the Southerly line and
having a rear line of 35.96 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 75. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-066 as

548

March 21, 2001
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.. or
designee.
Section 76. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
83 in Charles Leavitt Subdivision, of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 330
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 77. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-084 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 78. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot
No. 49 in Charles Leavitt’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 327 and 330, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 30
feet front on the Northeasterly side
of Colfax Road S.E., (formerly Colfax Street), and extending back
between parallel lines 150 feet to a
15 foot alley, known as Leavitt
Court S.E., as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways. Subject
to restriction of record and zoning
ordinance, if any.
Section 79. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-085 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 80. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
50 in Charles Leavitt’s Allotment of
parts of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 327 and 330 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 30 feet front on
the Northerly side of Colfax Street,
now Colfax Road, S.E., and 150 feet
deep running to a 15 foot alley, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 81. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-087 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.

March 21, 2001

The City Record

Section 82. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

Section 88. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 124-30-087
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
52 in Chas. Leavitt’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 327 and 330, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 30 feet front on
the Northeasterly side of Colfax
Road, S.E. and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 83. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-002 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 84. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 118-34-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 30.02 part of Sublot Nos. 1 and
5 in Fenton, Robinson and Rosen’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 on the
Southerly side of Central Avenue,
S.E., as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 45 of
Cuyahoga County Records, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 89. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-005 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 90. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 118-34-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 120 feet of Sublot No. 22 in
Phillip Bieger’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 336 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 45
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
part of Sublot No. 22 has a frontage
of 34 and 6-1/2 feet on the Southerly side of Central Avenue S.E., (formerly Garden Street) and extending
back between parallel lines 120 feet
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 85. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-003 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 86. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 21 in the Phillip Bieger’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 45 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublot No. 21 has a
frontage
of
34.50
feet
on
the
Southerly side of Central Avenue
(60
feet
wide),
extends
back
between parallel lines of 150 feet
and contains 0.1188 acres of land, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 87. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-004 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.

P. P. No. 118-34-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 1, 2 and 5 in Fenton,
Robinson and Rose’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 336, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
45 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E., (formerly Garden Street) at a point 12 feet Westerly from the Northeasterly corner
of said Sublot No. 1; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Central Avenue, S.E., 30 feet; thence
Southerly parallel with the Easterly
line of Sublot No. 1, about 153.666
feet to the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 5; thence Westerly along
said Southerly line, 30 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the Easterly
line of Sublot No. 1, about 153.666
feet to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 91. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-088 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 92. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the
Northeasterly 30 feet of Sublots Nos.
88, 89, 90, 91 and 92 in Charles
Leavitt’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acred Lots Nos.
327 and 330, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
31
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 30 feet front on the
Northeasterly side of Colfax Road

549

49
S.E. and extending back between
parallel lines 150 feet to the Southwesterly side of Leavitt Court S.E.,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways and subject to Zoning
Ordinances, if any.
Section 93. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-090 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 94. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
54 in Chas. Leavitt’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 327 and 330, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Northeasterly side of Colfax
Street, (now known as Colfax Road
S.E.), and extending back of equal
width 150 feet to a 15 foot alley in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highway.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 95. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 124-30-091 as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., or
designee.
Section 96. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-30-091
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
55 of Charles Leavitt’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 327 and 330 as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 31
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 30 feet front on the Northeasterly side of Colfax Road, S.E.,
and extending back of equal width
150 feet to the Southwesterly line of
Leavitt’s Court, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 97. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 98. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such

50
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 99. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. Tile deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 100. That the house and
site designs for the above-mentioned
properties shall be reviewed by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 101. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Ord. No. 453-01.
By Mayor White and Councilmen
Polensek, Cimperman and Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Cleveland
Community
Relations
Board to stretch three (3) banners
on Cleveland Public Power utility
poles (by separate permission) publicizing “CLEVELAND UNITY DAY”,
for the period of April 2, 2001
through May 5, 2001 inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to the Cleveland Community Relations Board to
install, maintain and remove three
(3) banners on Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission) at Euclid Avenue on the
3rd pole E. of E. 9th St. (S) #B6110, and the 4th pole E. of E. 9th St.
(S) #B60-10; and on Stokes Boulevard South of Carnegie (W) #88329,
and South of Carnegie (E) #88330;
and on 1936 W. 25th Street #AOM125 and 1947 W. 25th Street No Tag;
for the period of April 2, 2001
through May 5, 2001 inclusive, publicizing “Cleveland Unity Day”. Said
banners shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners and said banners shall be

The City Record
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

Ord. No. 454-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Port Control to furnish
certain prevailing wage reports to the
Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee and to establish
prevailing wage rates in accordance
with the provisions of the Codified
Ordinances.
Whereas,
pursuant
Section
3107.17(a) of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Cleveland Building Code mandates
that
installations
of
electrical
wiring and/or equipment can be
made only by or under the direct
supervision of licensed, registered
electrical contractors; and
Whereas, Docket No. A-119-90 of
the Board of Building Standards and
Building Appeals affirmed the position that only registered electrical
contractors may be used to perform
electrical work for runway construction
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
through
the
Board
of
Control,
recently awarded a public improvement contract to Anthony Allega
Cement
Contractor,
Inc.
in
the
amount of $129,546,778.55 to construct a new runway at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, the Director of Port Control stated to the members of the Aviation and Transportation of City
Council in January, 2001, that Port
Control determined that past practice
of the City required that, for similar
runway projects, trenching was performed by members of the highway
laborers union and the placement
and/or construction of electrical duct
banks and electrical manholes was
performed by licensed, registered
electrical contractors; and
Whereas, Section 185.33 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio requires the payment of the
prevailing rate of wages, as determined by the State of Ohio’s Department of Industrial Relations, for all
public improvement contracts let by
the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control shall ensure that all
electrical work, including but not
limited to duct bank and manhole
placement and/or construction, to be
performed on the runway construction project at Cleveland Hopkins
International is done by licensed,
registered electrical contractors and
that all such work is done in accordance with the provisions of the

550

March 21, 2001
Codified
Ordinances,
particularly
Sections 3107.17 and 185.33, and that
the wages to be paid for the electrical duct bank and electrical manhole component of the project shall
be established at the applicable electrician prevailing wage rate. The
Director of Port Control shall furnish to the Chairman of the Aviation & Transportation Committee
copies of all prevailing wage reports
prepared by or on behalf of the
Department of Port Control for the
runway project, immediately upon
completion of each report.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 455-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the
Hispanic Political Action Committee
to stretch banners in front of St.
Ignatius on West 29th Street and
Lorain Road for the period from April
1, 2001 to April 21, 2001, inclusive,
publicizing the Minority Health Fair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Hispanic Political Action Committee to install,
maintain and remove banners in
front of St. Ignatius located on West
29th Street and Lorain Road for the
period from April 1, 2001 to April 21,
2001, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

The City Record

March 21, 2001

51

Ord. No. 456-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2305-2000, passed February 5, 2001, relating to
moral claims.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2305-2000, passed February 5, 2001, is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is hereby authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sums set forth opposite
the names of the following claimants and charged against the fund numbers opposite the names of the claimants:
Claimant

Claim No.

Amount

Mildred Bretzel
Delores Kermes
Maxine Hunter
Barbara Kennedy
Teresa Burrell
Michelle Goolsby
Thelma Russell
Margaret Washington
Betsy Brown
John Lake
Henry Whyte
Rich Bogdan
Alice Cantwell
Kirk Mueller
Albert Oliver
Matthew Robinson
Renee Bradley-Mack
On behalf of
Clinton Bradley
Walter Knable
Alpha Burstion
Richard Sharp, Jr.
Essie Minter
Tina Sisson
Eric McDonald
Joseph Corbett
RTA
Jesse Davis
Vonetta Fountain
Michael Jankowski
Delores Junior
Southeast Improvement
Assoc.
Commander
Michael McGrath
William Harbison
Timothy Collins
Mark Brinza
Isiah Ellis
Evelyn Babcock

10946
10950
10953
10958
10960A
10960B
10960C
10960D
10960E
10974
10983
10995
11000
11018
11025
11034

$ 892.00
$1,250.00
$ 205.00
$ 205.00
$1,200.00
$1,200.00
$1,200.00
$1,200.00
$1,200.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
$ 235.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
$ 577.78

Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water

10853
10975
10978
10991
11014
11020
11035
10967
10985
10993
10964
10968
10973

$4,825.00
$ 126.00
$ 799.00
$ 407.46
$ 142.31
$ 737.00
$ 146.00
$ 326.00
$ 710.29
$ 750.00
$ 500.00
$ 365.00
$ 235.00

Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Fire
Fire
EMS
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance

01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000
01-600302-672000
01-600302-672000
01-600402-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000

10989A

$

81.80

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

10989B
11005
11024
11042
11048
10947

$
$
$
$
$
$

150.00
150.00
165.00
150.00
295.00
500.00

01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701204-672000

Jerry Carpenter

10959

$ 250.00

Eadie Scott

10994

$1,000.00

Helen Weber

11007

$ 250.00

Andre Keith

11008

$ 850.00

Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Convention Center
Streets
Waste Collection
Waste Collection
Waste Collection
Waste Collection
Waste Collection
Waste Collection
Municipal Clerk
Of Courts

Joann Porach

11029

$ 600.00

Brian Grancha

11037

$ 400.00

Robert Dubac
Patricia Stone
Stephanie Finlin
Gerald Hart
Theresa Pierce
Daniel Guthrie, Jr.
Tanya Ford
Joe Zagaria
Mary E. Williams

11045
11051
10957
10986
11023
11027
11030
11041
10641

$ 650.00
$ 107.89
$ 100.00
$ 939.41
$
50.00
$ 250.00
$ 310.30
$ 321.61
$1,000.00

Division
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution
Pollution

Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control

Fund
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54
54

SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF

001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001
001

01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
67 SF 001
11 SF 401
01-400303-672000
01-400303-672000
01-400303-672000
01-400303-672000
01-400303-672000
01-400303-672000
01-011501-672000

Section 2. That existing Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2305-2000, passed February 5, 2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 12, 2001.
Effective March 16, 2001.

551

The City Record

52

Tuesday, March 20, 2001

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Friday, March 16, 2001
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
10:00 a.m.—Present: Brady, Chairman; Reed, Jones. Excused: Cimperman, Cintron.

Community and Economic Development Committee: 9:30 a.m.—Present: Melena, Chairman; Lewis, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron, Jackson, Jones, Willis. Excused: Johnson.

tron, Jackson, Jones,
cused: Johnson.

Willis.

Ex-

Legislation Committee: 1:30 p.m.—
Present: Lewis, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed,
White, Westbrook.
Wednesday, March 21, 2001

Legislation Committee: 1:30 p.m.—
Present: Lewis, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed,
White, Westbrook.

Monday, March 19, 2001
Tuesday, March 6, 2001
Finance Committee: 2:00 p.m.—
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White. Excused:
Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt.

March 21, 2001

Community and Economic Development Committee: 9:30 a.m.—Present: Melena, Chairman; Lewis, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cin-

Public Safety Committee: 10:00
a.m.—Present: Polensek, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Gordon,
Melena,
Sweeney. Excused: Jackson.
Public Utilities Committee: 1:30
p.m.—Present: O’Malley, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Melena, Westbrook, Willis. Excused:
Dolan, Polensek.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Banners
CLEVELAND UNITY DAY — three (3) banners (O 453-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Minority Health Fair — banners — Hispanic Political Action Committee
(O 455-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Ohio Voluntary Action Program environmental services at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport - contract pursuant to Ord. 608-98 to Hull & Associates - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 144-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plan (SPCC) environmental services at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - contract pursuant to Ord. 608-98 to
Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 143-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Board of Control - Community Development Department
Acquire and dispose Park Village Apartments - pursuant to Ord. 304-01 - to Famicos
Foundation (BOC Res. 160-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) pursuant to Ord. 303-01
(BOC Res. 161-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536

Board of Control - Health Division
Elevator maintenance and repair - pursuant to Ord. 1683-2000 - all bids rejected Division of Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 156-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

Board of Control - Land Acquisition
Acquire and dispose Park Village Apartments - pursuant to Ord. 304-01 - to Famicos
Foundation (BOC Res. 160-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536

Board of Control - Land Reconveyance
Acquire and dispose Park Village Apartments - pursuant to Ord. 304-01 - to Famicos
Foundation (BOC Res. 160-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) pursuant to Ord. 303-01
(BOC Res. 161-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536

552

March 21, 2001

The City Record

53

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) pursuant to Ord. 303-01
(BOC Res. 161-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Admiral Truck Parts,
Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 148-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Carquest Auto Parts of
Solon Ohio, Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 149-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Servco Products, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 150-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Perkins Motor Services,
Ltd. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 151-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to The Cleveland Ignition
Co. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 152-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to TruckPro, Inc., d.b.a.
TruckPro - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 153-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 - bids rejected - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 147-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dump bodies, 14’ - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Cenweld Corp. - Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 154-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Snowplows (Wausau) - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Concord Road Equipment Mfg.,
Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 155-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stationary generator repair - amend BOC Res. 95-01 - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 146-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Plumbing and heating supplies - pursuant to Ord. 1956-98 - all bids rejected - Division
of Property Management, Dept of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 159-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Board of Control - Port Control Department
Ohio Voluntary Action Program environmental services at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport - contract pursuant to Ord. 608-98 to Hull & Associates - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 144-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Sewer, oil water separators, electrical vaults and appurtenances, including waste
material disposal - contract pursuant to Ord. 328-2000 to Inland Waters of Ohio Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 145-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plan (SPCC) environmental services at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - contract pursuant to Ord. 608-98 to
Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 143-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Annual Reports 2000 and 2001 - contract pursuant to Ord. 881-99 to H2N Design, Inc.
- Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 141-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brochures, consumer information for the Division of Water - contract pursuant
to Ord. 881-99 to Creative Works, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Voluntary Action Program environmental services at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport - contract pursuant to Ord. 608-98 to Hull & Associates - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 144-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plan (SPCC) environmental services at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - contract pursuant to Ord. 608-98 to
Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 143-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

553

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

The City Record

54

March 21, 2001

Board of Control - Property Management Division
Plumbing and heating supplies - pursuant to Ord. 1956-98 - all bids rejected - Division
of Property Management, Dept of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 159-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Board of Control - Public Health Department
Elevator maintenance and repair - pursuant to Ord. 1683-2000 - all bids rejected Division of Health, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 156-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Fifth District Police station roof replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 927-2000 to
T & F Systems Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 158-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Masonry repair / restoration at various Fire and Police stations - contract pursuant to
Ord. 927-2000 to M-A Building & Maintenance Company - Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 157-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
Rowley Avenue sewer replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-99 to Longo Sewer
Construction Co., Inc. - Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 142-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Fifth District Police station roof replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 927-2000 to
T & F Systems Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 158-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Masonry repair / restoration at various Fire and Police stations - contract pursuant to
Ord. 927-2000 to M-A Building & Maintenance Company - Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 157-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
Board of Control - Public Service Department
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Admiral Truck Parts,
Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 148-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Carquest Auto Parts of
Solon Ohio, Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 149-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Servco Products, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 150-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Perkins Motor Services,
Ltd. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 151-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to The Cleveland Ignition
Co. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 152-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to TruckPro, Inc., d.b.a.
TruckPro - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 153-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 - bids rejected - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 147-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dump bodies, 14’ - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Cenweld Corp. - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 154-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Snowplows (Wausau) - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Concord Road Equipment Mfg.,
Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 155-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stationary generator repair - amend BOC Res. 95-01 - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 146-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Annual Reports 2000 and 2001 - contract pursuant to Ord. 881-99 to H2N Design, Inc.
- Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 141-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Brochures, consumer information for the Division of Water - contract pursuant
to Ord. 881-99 to Creative Works, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532
Rowley Avenue sewer replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-99 to Longo Sewer
Construction Co., Inc. - Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 142-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

554

March 21, 2001

The City Record

55

Board of Control - Purchases and Supplies Division
Acquire and dispose Park Village Apartments - pursuant to Ord. 304-01 - to Famicos
Foundation (BOC Res. 160-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Admiral Truck Parts,
Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 148-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Carquest Auto Parts of
Solon Ohio, Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 149-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Servco Products, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 150-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to Perkins Motor Services,
Ltd. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 151-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to The Cleveland Ignition
Co. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 152-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts - contract pursuant to Ord. 1264-99 to TruckPro, Inc., d.b.a.
TruckPro - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 153-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dump bodies, 14’ - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Cenweld Corp. - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 154-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer, oil water separators, electrical vaults and appurtenances, including waste
material disposal - contract pursuant to Ord. 328-2000 to Inland Waters of Ohio Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 145-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Snowplows (Wausau) - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Concord Road Equipment Mfg.,
Inc. - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 155-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stationary generator repair - amend BOC Res. 95-01 - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 146-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534

Board of Control - Water Division
Annual Reports 2000 and 2001 - contract pursuant to Ord. 881-99 to H2N Design, Inc.
- Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 141-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Brochures, consumer information for the Division of Water - contract pursuant
to Ord. 881-99 to Creative Works, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532
Board of Control - Water Pollution Control Division
Rowley Avenue sewer replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-99 to Longo Sewer
Construction Co., Inc. - Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 142-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Board of Education
Xavier Peguero — help — Cleveland Board of Education — Hawken School
(R 401-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539
Board of Elections
“Butterfly” ballots — prohibit — “five minute rule” — abolish — Urging
(R 2125-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Bridge Avenue, 4005, (Ward 14) – Duneside Development Ltd., owner (Cal. 01-33) . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue, 8000-8116, (Ward 6) – Fairfax Development Corporation, owner
- appeal granted and adopted on 3/19/01 (Cal. 01-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coit Road, 14027, (Ward 10) – Omega Baptist Church, owner (Cal. 01-32) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 10201, (Ward 2) – Storm Lawson, owner - appeal postponed to 4/9/01
on 3/19/01 (Cal. 01-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Henniger Road, 2601, (Ward 15) – Nextel West Corpoartion, owner, c/o John Kunz - appeal
denied and adopted on 3/19/01 (Cal. 00-340) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 4006, (Ward 1) – BP Oil Company, owner (Cal. 01-30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linn Drive, 954, (Ward 8) – True Vine Baptist Church, owner, c/o Reverend Edward McGhee
(Cal. 00-376) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

555

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537

The City Record

56

St. Clair Avenue, 17149, (Ward 11) – All City Recycling, Inc., owner - appeal withdrawn
on 3/19/01 (Cal. 01-31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 3525, (Ward 19) – Joseph Coreno, owner - appeal postponed to 4/9/01
on 3/19/01 (Cal. 01-20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 33rd Street, 3277, (Ward 14) – Higinio Justiniano, Jr., owner - appeal heard
on 3/19/01 (Cal. 01-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th Street, 1278, (Ward 13) – Bingham-Burnside LLC, owners - appeal granted and
adopted on 3/19/01 (Cal. 00-339) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 21, 2001
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
East 59th Street, 3712, (Ward 12) – Divna Cosas, owner, and Horodysky Associates, agent
- appeal to be heard on 4/2/01 (Cal. 01-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 1610, (Ward 13) – Playhouse Square Association, owner, c/o Keith
Feuerstein, agent - appeal to be heard on 4/2/01 (Cal. 01-41). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 8118, (Ward 6) – Premier Restaurant Management, d.b.a. The Kenny King
Corporation, owner, and Brilliant Electric Sign Company, agent - appeal to be heard
on 4/2/01 (Cal. 01-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South Waterloo Road, 16300, (Ward 11) – Michael Liptack, owner - appeal to be heard on
4/2/01 (Cal. 01-39). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 4774, (Ward 16) – Shayne M. Shella, owner - appeal to be heard on
4/2/01 (Cal. 01-45). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Schaaf Road, 2005, (Ward 16) – Brooklyn Heights United Church of Christ, owner, and
Brilliant Electric Sign Company, agent - appeal to be heard on 4/2/01 (Cal. 01-42) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 537

Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue notes — issuance and sale — acquiring real property
— Airport System (O 492-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505
Charter
Chalker, Kenneth W. Reverend — Excusing — Section 74 (O 512-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
City of Cleveland Bids
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket and chip dump body (Request #1465-19) - Department of
Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 1685-2000 and
99-01 - bid due April 6, 2001 (advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Compressors, air - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
- per Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 - bid due April 6, 2001 (advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001) .
Distribution mains - Contract A, cement and mortar lining of - Department of Public
Utilities - Division of Water - per Ord. 2201-2000 - bid due April
11, 2001 (advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution mains - Contract B, cement and mortar lining of - Department of Public
Utilities - Division of Water - per Ord. 2201-2000 - bid due April
11, 2001 (advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dump truck body rehabilitation - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance - per Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 - bid due April 6, 2001
(advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 40th Street, (Phase III - Superior Avenue to South Marginal Road), rehabilitation
of - Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering and Construction - per
Ord. 1587-2000 - bid due April 5, 2001(advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Genetic analyzer - Department of Public Safety - Division of Police - per Ord. 1005-2000
- bid due April 5, 2001(advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HVAC remote panel unit upgrade - Department of Port Control - per Ord. 1269-97 - bid due
April 18, 2001 (advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kurruish Park storm water project - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water
Pollution Control - per Ord. 1081-99 - bid due April 12, 2001
(advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Medical supplies - Department of Public Safety - Division of Fire - per Ord. 582-99 - bid
due April 12, 2001 (advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meter reading computer readers - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Cleveland
Public Power - per Ord. 1678-2000 - bid due March 29, 2001
(advertised 3/14/2001 and 3/21/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MSA breathing apparatus, labor and material to repair - Department of Public Safety
- Division of Fire - per Ord. 1875-2000 - bid due April 12, 2001
(advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding - Department of Public Service - Division of Streets - per Ord.
1681-2000 - bid due April 12, 2001 (advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Telemetry system installation - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water
Pollution Control - per Ord. 2682-90 - bid due April 19, 2001
(advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

556

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

The City Record

March 21, 2001

57

Toro mower parts - Department of Finance - per Ord. 474-2000 - bid due April
4, 2001 (advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Towel and linen service - Department of Finance - per Ord. 285-01 - bid due April
4, 2001 (advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trailers - Department of Public Safety - Division of Fire - per Ord. 867-99 - bid
due April 12, 2001 (advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tug Road replacement project - Department of Port Control - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - bid due April 20, 2001
(advertised 3/21/2001 and 3/28/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Prevailing wage reports — furnish — Aviation and Transportation Committee Chairman
(O 454-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Cleveland Housing Network
Scattered sites property — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(O 303-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 543
Cleveland Municipal School District
Xavier Peguero — help — Cleveland Board of Education — Hawken School
(R 401-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539
Codified Ordinances
Chalker, Kenneth W. Reverend — Excusing — Section 74 (O 512-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Domestic steel — use — new Section 185.022 (O 24-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Downtown residential districts — enact Section 337.081 and amend Sections 335.01
and Section 335.02 of Codified Ordinances (O 338-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 521-525
Law Director’s power and duties — amend Section 125.01 (O 126-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-532
Outdoor restaurants — temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits — new Sections
513.01 to 513.11 and 513.99 (O 1800-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-528
Traffic Engineering Division — transfer from the Department of Public Safety to the
Department of Public Service (O 1806-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Community Development
E. 120th St. 1395, 1399 — Moulton Ave., 11721 — blighted premises — W. 9 Neighborhood
Equity Funds — Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation
(O 511-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 518
Federal HOME Grant Prog. 2001 — Emergency Shelter Prog. — Housing Opportunity for
Persons with AIDS Prog. — grants — U.S. Dept. of Housing
(O 124-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-532
Fries & Schuele Building (O 219-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Grand, Tennyson and Buckeye Roads — Land Reutilization Program — Allegheny West
Conference of Seventh Day Adventist (O 1114-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 521-526
Your Home Program — funds — amend Sect. 4 of Ord. No. 1575-2000
(O 508-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 516
Community Relations Board
CLEVELAND UNITY DAY — three (3) banners (O 453-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Condolences
Barry (Officer) (R 478-01) . .
Chiuppa, William (R 476-01)
Dickson, James (R 479-01) . .
Glamm, Renee L. (R 475-01)
Hampton, Linda (R 477-01) .
Petric, John (R 474-01) . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

504
504
504
504
504
504

Carter, Clara (R 480-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin, Jessica (R 481-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Kovachy, Edward M. (R 484-01) . . . . . . . .
McCaffery, Edward E. Capt. (R 482-01) .
O’Donnell, Officer Sean (R 483-01) . . . . . .
Veres, Michael J. (R 485-01) . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 504
. 504
. 504
. 504
. 504
. 504

Congratulations

557

The City Record

58

March 21, 2001

Contracts
Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp — alterations and modifications — Contract
56174 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle computer products — technical support services (O 222-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scottish Industries (1720 Fall St.) — upgrades and improvements — contract — HAB
Manufacturing (O 167-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

No.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524

Criminal Justice Services
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program — grant — Criminal Justice
Services Agency (O 496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
Cuyahoga County
“Butterfly” ballots — prohibit — “five
(R 2125-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mentally ill — state budget increased
(R 516-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

minute rule” — abolish — Urging
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
— Supporting NAMI Cuyahoga County
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520

Economic Development Department
Fries & Schuele Building (O 219-01) .
Fries and Schuele Building (1948 W.
(O 312-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scottish Industries (1720 Fall St.) —
Manufacturing (O 167-01) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
25th St.) — Enterprise Zone Agreement
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
upgrades and improvements — contract — HAB
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524

Encroachments
West 6th Street — Encroachment Permit — Sanctuary Diner — amend the Title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1129-2000 (O 1400-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-528
Enterprise Zone Agreement
Fries and Schuele Building (1948 W. 25th St.) — Enterprise Zone Agreement
(O 312-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Fair Housing Review Board
Honsa, Doris — Mendiola,
Board — Approval by
Honsa, Doris — Mendiola,
Board (F 473-01) . . . . .

Ruben — Doud, Micahel
Council (F 473-01-A) . . . .
Ruben — Doud, Michael
........................

— Mayor’s Appointments to Fair Housing
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
— Mayor’s Appointment — Fair Housing
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503

Finance Department
Jacobsen mower parts — purchase — various divisions of City government
(O 489-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Lumber and supplies, — purchase — various divisions of City government
(O 491-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Moral claims — amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2305-2000 (O 456-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Oracle computer products — technical support services (O 222-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Paper and cloth wipers — purchase — various divisions of City government
(O 490-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Towel and linen service — purchase — various divisions of City government
(O 285-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-532
Franchises
Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. — hot water for district heating — IPALCO Enterprises,
Inc. (O 2121-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 541
Funds
Your Home Program — funds — amend Sect. 4 of Ord. No. 1575-2000
(O 508-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 516
Gifts
Loan agreement — U. S. Department of Defense — equipment and supplies — gift
(O 176-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524

558

March 21, 2001

The City Record

59

Grants
2000 Local Law Enforcement Block Grant Program — grant — U.S. Department of
Justice (O 497-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512
Caribbean/Gang Task Force Program 2001 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 500-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
Federal HOME Grant Prog. 2001 — Emergency Shelter Prog. — Housing Opportunity for
Persons with AIDS Prog. — grants — U.S. Dept. of Housing (O 124-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-532
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program — grant — Criminal Justice
Services Agency (O 496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
STEP 2001 Program — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 499-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
Violence Against Women Program — 001 Cleveland Team Approach — grant — U.
S. Department of Justice (O 498-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512
Health Department
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
Housing
Gardner Evergreen Project — repeal Res. No. 462-01 (O 515-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Elderly II Housing Tax Credit Development — support — affordable housing —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency (R 461-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park 99 Limited Partnership - support — affordable housing — tax credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 520

Land Reutilization Program
E. 103rd St. — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 514-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
E. 61st St. — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 507-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 515
E. 97th St. 2249 and 2243 — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (O 505-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514
East 132nd Street, 3418 — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Pleasant Baptist Church
(O 2271-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 543
Grand, Tennyson and Buckeye Roads — Land Reutilization Program — Allegheny West
Conference of Seventh Day Adventist (O 1114-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 521-526
Milligan Ave., 12923 — Land Reutilization Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation (O 509-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 516
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — scattered sites — Land
Reutilization Program (O 510-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 517
Scattered sites property — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(O 303-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 543
Ward 14 — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network,
Inc. (O 123-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-531
Law Department
Law Director’s power and duties — amend Section 125.01 (O 126-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-532
Liquor Permits
Cedar Ave., 2747 — Legislative Authority Notice (F 472-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Chester Ave., 10400 — Objecting to the issuance (R 519-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 521
E. 140th St., 523 — New Application (F 467-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Euclid Ave., 18027 — New Application (F 466-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Jefferson Ave., 819 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application (F 471-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Jefferson Ave., 819 — Withdrawing objection to the transfer — repeal Res. No. 2168-2000
(R 457-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — New Application (F 464-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Lake Ave., 8701 — Withdrawing objection to the renewal — repeal Res. No. 1350-2000
(R 459-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
Larchmere Ave., 13114 — Transfer of Ownership Application (F 469-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Madison Ave., 10130 — New Application (F 463-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Madison Ave., 7602 — Withdrawing objection to the renewal —repeal Res. No. 1353-2000
(R 460-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
W. 117th St., 3934 — New Application (F 468-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
W. 6th St., 1276 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application (F 470-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Woodland Ave., 10716 — New Application (F 465-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503

559

The City Record

60

March 21, 2001

Loans
Loan agreement — U. S. Department of Defense — equipment and supplies — gift
(O 176-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Mayor’s Appointments
Honsa, Doris — Mendiola,
Board — Approval by
Honsa, Doris — Mendiola,
Board (F 473-01) . . . . .

Ruben — Doud, Micahel
Council (F 473-01-A) . . . .
Ruben — Doud, Michael
........................

— Mayor’s Appointments to Fair Housing
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
— Mayor’s Appointment — Fair Housing
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503

Moral Claims
Moral claims — amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2305-2000 (O 456-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Automotive and truck oils, lubricants and solvents — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 130-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 134-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty construction equipment — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 128-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mowers and cutting equipment — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 131-01) .
Tire repair road service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 135-01) . . . . . . .
Tires — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 133-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicle batteries and equipment — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 132-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

523
523
524
524

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524

Neighborhood Equity Funds
E. 120th St. 1395, 1399 — Moulton Ave., 11721 — blighted premises — W. 9 Neighborhood
Equity Funds — Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation (O 511-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 518
Water Tower Park site — impact study — mend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 949-2000
(O 506-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 515
Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
Ohio Housing Finance Agency
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — support — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 520-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Elderly II Housing Tax Credit Development — support — affordable housing —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency (R 461-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park 99 Limited Partnership - support — affordable housing — tax credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Broadway Avenue Historic Main Street District — create 29 units — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 518-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 521
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 520
. . . . . . . . . . . . 520

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Collinwood Town Center — improvement (O 503-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514
McGowan Park, Crossburn Park, Jefferson Park & Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex
— improvement (O 504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514
Neff Park — improvement (O 501-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
Northeast Shores Development Corporation — agreement — maintain and adopt — real
estate (O 502-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
Pool chemicals — Division of Recreation (O 82-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-530
Permits
Outdoor restaurants — temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits — new Sections
513.01 to 513.11 and 513.99 (O 1800-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-528
Personnel Department
Chalker, Kenneth W. Reverend — Excusing — Section 74 (O 512-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519

560

March 21, 2001

The City Record

61

Port Control Department
Prevailing wage reports — furnish — Aviation
(O 454-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subordinated airport revenue notes — issuance
— Airport System (O 492-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . .

and Transportation Committee Chairman
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
and sale — acquiring real property
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505

Recognition
Cody, James (R 486-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Residence Requirements
Chalker, Kenneth W. Reverend — Excusing — Section 74 (O 512-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Resolutions - Miscellaneous
“Butterfly” ballots — prohibit — “five minute rule” — abolish — Urging
(R 2125-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — support — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 520-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Elderly II Housing Tax Credit Development — support — affordable housing —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency (R 461-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mentally ill — state budget increased — Supporting NAMI Cuyahoga County
(R 516-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park 99 Limited Partnership - support — affordable housing — tax credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., Euclid Ave., Ivanhoe Rd and E. 152nd St. — Ward 10 — change the speed
limit (R 458-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Xavier Peguero — help — Cleveland Board of Education — Hawken School
(R 401-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 524
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 521
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 520
. . . . . . . . . . . . 520
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 539

Right-of-Way
Outdoor restaurants — temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits — new Sections
513.01 to 513.11 and 513.99 (O 1800-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-528
Safety Department
2000 Local Law Enforcement Block Grant Program — grant — U.S. Department of
Justice (O 497-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Caribbean/Gang Task Force Program 2001 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 500-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diversity management training for field training officers and recruits — Division
of Fire — Greater Cleveland Roundtable — Public Safety (O 1874-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program — grant — Criminal Justice
Services Agency (O 496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loan agreement — U. S. Department of Defense — equipment and supplies — gift
(O 176-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STEP 2001 Program — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 499-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traffic Engineering Division — transfer from the Department of Public Safety to the
Department of Public Service (O 1806-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Violence Against Women Program — 001 Cleveland Team Approach — grant — U.
S. Department of Justice (O 498-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512

Service Department
Automotive and truck oils, lubricants and solvents — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 130-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
CLEVELAND UNITY DAY — three (3) banners (O 453-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp — alterations and modifications — Contract No.
56174 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510
Gasoline — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 134-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Heavy duty construction equipment — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 128-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Minority Health Fair — banners — Hispanic Political Action Committee (O 455-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Outdoor restaurants — temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits — new Sections
513.01 to 513.11 and 513.99 (O 1800-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-528
Sidewalks, handicap ramps, curbing, driveway aprons, median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches, utility box adjustments — laying and relaying and repairing
(O 2108-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-530

561

The City Record

62

March 21, 2001

Solid waste — transfer and disposal — purchase (O 494-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510
Tire repair road service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 135-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Tires — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 133-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Traffic Engineering Division — transfer from the Department of Public Safety to the
Department of Public Service (O 1806-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Trucks with operators — Rental — Division of Streets (O 129-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Vehicle batteries and equipment — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 132-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
West 6th Street — Encroachment Permit — Sanctuary Diner — amend the Title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1129-2000 (O 1400-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-528
Sewers
Arbor/Taft area — detention tank piping installation — sewer improvements (O 169-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Sidewalks
Sidewalks, handicap ramps, curbing, driveway aprons, median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches, utility box adjustments — laying and relaying and repairing
(O 2108-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-530
Slavic Village Association
Slavic Village Broadway Avenue Historic Main Street District — create 29 units — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 518-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Speed Limits
St. Clair Ave., Euclid Ave., Ivanhoe Rd and E. 152nd St. — Ward 10 — change the speed
limit (R 458-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
Steel Industry
Domestic steel — use — new Section 185.022 (O 24-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Street Vacation
E. 57th St., Tivoli Court S. E., E. 59th Place & Chadakoin Court S.E. — intention
to vacate (R 513-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Quincy N. — East 79 and East 82 Streets — First Alley — vacate (O.430-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Reserve Court N. E. — Declaring the intention to vacate (R 88-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Streets Division
Trucks with operators — Rental — Division of Streets (O 129-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Tax Credits
Gardner Evergreen Project — repeal Res. No. 462-01 (O 515-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — support — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 520-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Elderly II Housing Tax Credit Development — support — affordable housing —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency (R 461-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park 99 Limited Partnership - support — affordable housing — tax credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 517-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 520
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 521
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 520

Utilities Department
Arbor/Taft area — detention tank piping installation — sewer improvements (O 169-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Dominion Cleveland Thermal, Inc. — hot water for district heating — IPALCO Enterprises,
Inc. (O 2121-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 541
Kirtland Intake Crib — painting (O 2096-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 522-529
Materials and supplies handling equipment — maintain and repair — Division
of Water (O 2102-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Treelawns and landscape maintenance — various divisions (O 2104-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Ward 02
Cody, James (R 486-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504

562

March 21, 2001

The City Record

63

Ward 03
East 132nd Street, 3418 — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Pleasant Baptist Church
(O 2271-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 543
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — New Application (F 464-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Ward 04
Grand, Tennyson and Buckeye Roads — Land Reutilization Program — Allegheny West
Conference of Seventh Day Adventist (O 1114-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 521-526
Larchmere Ave., 13114 — Transfer of Ownership Application (F 469-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Ward 05
Cedar Ave., 2747 — Legislative Authority Notice (F 472-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 57th St., Tivoli Court S. E., E. 59th Place & Chadakoin Court S.E. — intention
to vacate (R 513-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 61st St. — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 507-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scattered sites property — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(O 303-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 503
. . . . . . . . . . . . 519
. . . . . . . . . . . . 515
. . . . . . . . . . . . 543

Ward 06
Carter, Clara (R 480-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 97th St. 2249 and 2243 — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (O 505-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy N. — East 79 and East 82 Streets — First Alley — vacate (O.430-01) . . . . .
Reserve Court N. E. — Declaring the intention to vacate (R 88-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 10716 — New Application (F 465-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

514
523
523
503

Ward 07
Dickson, James (R 479-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Ward 08
E. 103rd St. — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 514-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Ward 09
Chester Ave., 10400 — Objecting to the issuance (R 519-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 120th St. 1395, 1399 — Moulton Ave., 11721 — blighted premises — W. 9 Neighborhood
Equity Funds — Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation (O 511-01) . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen Project — repeal Res. No. 462-01 (O 515-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 462-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gardner Evergreen, L.P. — support — affordable housing — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(R 520-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — scattered sites — Land
Reutilization Program (O 510-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 521
. . . . . . . . . . . . 518
. . . . . . . . . . . . 520
. . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 521
. . . . . . . . . . . . 517

Ward 10
E. 140th St., 523 — New Application (F 467-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 18027 — New Application (F 466-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin, Jessica (R 481-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hampton, Linda (R 477-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., Euclid Ave., Ivanhoe Rd and E. 152nd St. — Ward 10 — change the speed
limit (R 458-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Tower Park site — impact study — mend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 949-2000
(O 506-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 503
. 503
. 504
. 504

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 515

Ward 11
Collinwood Town Center — improvement (O 503-01) . . . . .
McCaffery, Edward E. Capt. (R 483-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neff Park — improvement (O 501-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Shores Development Corporation — agreement
estate (O 502-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Petric, John (R 474-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

563

...
...
...
—
...
...

.........
.........
.........
maintain
.........
.........

....
....
....
and
....
....

......
......
......
adopt
......
......

...
...
...
—
...
...

.....
.....
.....
real
.....
.....

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504

The City Record

64

March 21, 2001

Ward 12
Glamm, Renee L. (R 475-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Slavic Village Broadway Avenue Historic Main Street District — create 29 units — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 518-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Ward 13
Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp — alterations and modifications — Contract
56174 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Ave., 819 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application (F 471-01) . . . . . . .
Jefferson Ave., 819 — Withdrawing objection to the transfer — repeal Res. No. 2168-2000
(R 457-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 6th St., 1276 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application (F 470-01) . . . . . . . . . .

No.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503

Ward 14
Fries and Schuele Building (1948 W. 25th St.) — Enterprise Zone Agreement
(O 312-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Minority Health Fair — banners — Hispanic Political Action Committee (O 455-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 550
Ward 14 — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network,
Inc. (O 123-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523-531
Ward 15
Quin, Gina (R 487-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Veres, Michael J. (R 485-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Ward 16
Chiuppa, William (R 476-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
McNamara, Thomas (R 488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Ward 17
Lake Ave., 8701 —
(R 459-01) . . . .
Madison Ave., 7602
(R 460-01) . . . .

Withdrawing objection to
.........................
— Withdrawing objection
.........................

the renewal —
...............
to the renewal
...............

repeal Res. No. 1350-2000
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
—repeal Res. No. 1353-2000
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540

Ward 18
Madison Ave., 10130 — New Application (F 463-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Ward 19
McNamara, Thomas (R 488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
W. 117th St., 3934 — New Application (F 468-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
Ward 20
McGowan Park, Crossburn Park, Jefferson Park & Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex
— improvement (O 504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 514
McNamara, Thomas (R 488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Milligan Ave., 12923 — Land Reutilization Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation (O 509-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 516
Ward 21
Barry (Officer) (R 478-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
McNamara, Thomas (R 488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Solid waste — transfer and disposal — purchase (O 494-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510
Water Division
Materials and supplies handling equipment — maintain and repair — Division
of Water (O 2102-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523
Welcome
McNamara, Thomas (R 488-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Quin, Gina (R 487-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504

564

