The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
May the Second, Two Thousand and One

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
21
26
29
29
30
31
31
31
33
36
36

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3232 East 119th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis.........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Susan E. Axelrod, Senior Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Nicholas P. Jackson, Executive Assistant for Services
Nina Turner, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Marvin Hayes, Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Pinky Carr, Chief Counsel,
Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Ronald E. Brooks, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert C. Brown, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Daniel Jarvis, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Reuben Sheperd, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Donald Culp, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Alfred T. Miller, Jr.,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVI L SERV ICE COMMISSION – Ro om 1 19, An ne Blo ombe rg, Presi de nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox,
P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Ronald E. Brooks, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Ronald E. Brooks; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush, James Gibans,
Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J.
Melena, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 2001

Vol. 88

No. 4560

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 30, 2001
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Jones, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jackson,
Melena,
Sweeney.

RUBY F. MOSS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Jackson,
Reed, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed, Westbrook, White.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Melena, Polensek, Westbrook,
Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Reed, White.
The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
O’Malley, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Patmon, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 30, 2001.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Michael D. Polensek, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Patmon,
Reed,
Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Absent: Mayor White and Directors Carter, Brooks, Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Guzman,
Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren
and Morrison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2976-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Reverend
Jewell Jones, Pastor, Shiloh Baptist
Church,
located
at
5500
Scovill
Avenue in Ward 5. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Sweeney.

837

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 728-01.
From the Department of Port Control re: Storm Water General Permit
and Storm Water Pollution Plans.
Received.
File No. 729-01.
From the Department of Port Control re: Agreement No. 57472 —
Minority Electric Co., Inc. — electric
equipment — new substation —
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 730-01.
From the Director of Public Utilities re: Contract No. 56070 — Triad
Engineering & Contracting Co. —
Division of Water Pollution Control.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
No.
731-01—Ellen
Louise
Sharp.
Res. No. 732-01—William Marcus.
Res. No. 752-01—Edward L. Kocin.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 733-01—Dr. Larry D. Terry.
Res. No. 734-01—Jack McNeeley.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 735-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of the First Unnamed Alley
hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 17th day of July
2000, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
947-2000 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of the First Unnamed Alley, hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 947-2000
has been served upon the owners of
all the property abutting the First
Unnamed Alley by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 24th day of April,
2001, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation

4
of the First Unnamed Alley, hereinafter
described,
in
accordance
with the provisions of Section 176 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating the First Unnamed Alley, hereinafter described and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
The First Unnamed Alley, (5.00 feet
in width) as established by the
Luna Heights Subdivision recorded
in Volume 42, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records and extending
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Woodland Avenue S.E. (60.00 feet
wide) to the Northerly line of
Grandview Avenue S.E. (40.00 feet
wide), be and the same is hereby
vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of The First Unnamed Alley,
herein provided by sending him a
copy of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure, and provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
its approval by the Mayor; otherwise
it shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to the Directors of Public Service, City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning.
Ord. No. 736-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to execute an easement granting to Tower City Riverview Company (“Tower City”) certain easement rights in property located
under the West 3rd Street ramp necessary to construct and use an
entrance/exit drive for a period of
ten years, with one ten-year option
to renew; declaring said easement
rights no longer needed for public
use; authorizing said Director to
issue a permit to Tower City to construct a drive for vehicular and
pedestrian access to and from the
existing Riverview Parking Lot;
and authorizing the Director of
Public Service to lease to Tower
City certain City-owned land adjacent to West 3rd Street, for a period not to exceed ten years, with one
ten-year option to renew.
Whereas, Tower City Riverview
Company has requested the Director of Public Service to convey certain easement rights in property
located under the West 3rd Street
ramp; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and

The City Record
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Permanent Parcel Numbers 122-18014 and 122-18-015 which are not
needed for public use for the next
ten years; and
Whereas, Tower City Riverview
Company has proposed to lease said
property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that an easement interest in the following described property is no longer needed for public
use:
Drive Easement
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
West 3rd Street (as widened) of part
of S.S. Stones Survey of Central
Tract of part of Original Two Acre
Lots No. 218 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page
31 of Cuyahoga County Records and
is further bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
found in the center line of Scranton
Road S.W. (variable width) at is
intersection with the center line of
West 3rd Street (variable width);
Thence South 33° 23' 54" East,
along said center line of West 3rd
Street a distance of 27.62 feet;
Thence North 60° 50' 39" East, a
distance of 68.64 feet, to the Northeasterly right of way line of West
3rd street at its intersection with
the Southeasterly right of way line
of said Scranton Road S.W.;
Thence South 33° 23' 54" East,
along said Northeasterly right of
way line of West 3rd Street a distance of 11.90 feet to the principal
place of beginning of the land herein described;
Course 1: Thence South 33° 24'
54" East, continuing along said
Northeasterly right of way line of
West 3rd Street, a distance of 66.00
feet;
Course 2: Thence South 56° 36' 06"
West, a distance of 48.00 feet;
Course 3: Thence North 33° 23' 54"
West, a distance of 66.00 feet;
Course 4: Thence North 56° 36' 06"
East, a distance of 48.00 feet to the
principal place of beginning and
containing 0.0727 acres (3,168 square
feet) of land.
Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highway.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to construct
and use an entrance/exit drive
under the West 3rd Street ramp.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey
the above-described, non-exclusive
easement to Tower City Riverview
Company (“Tower City”) at a price
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.

838

May 2, 2001
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be for ten (10)
years, with one option exercisable
by the Director of Public Service, to
renew for an additional ten-year
term, and cancellable upon thirty
days written notice by said Director; that the easement shall include
reasonable rights of entry to the
City; that the easement shall not be
assignable; that the easement shall
require the grantee to indemnify
the City; provide reasonable insurance; maintain any grantee improvements located within the easement; and pay any applicable taxes
and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Service
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Deed of Easement shall contain
such additional terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the parties. The Directors of Public Service and Law are
authorized to execute such other
documents, including without limitation, contracts for right of entry,
as may be necessary to effect the
construction of the entrance/exit
drive under the West 3rd Street
ramp.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Tower City, its successors
and assigns, to construct a drive for
vehicular and pedestrian access to
and from the existing Riverview
Parking
Lot
located
under
the
Scranton Road Bridge, as described
as follows:
AREA OF ENCROACHMENT UNDER
THE SCRANTON ROAD S.W.
BRIDGE OVER THE
CSX RAILROAD
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being an encroachment area within the right-of-way of
Scranton Road S.W., 66 feet in
width, of part of Original Two Acre
Lot
Number
217,
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Northwesterly
line of Scranton Road S.W., at its
intersection with the Northeasterly
line of West 3rd Street, 70 feet in
width;
Thence North 60° 16' 39" East
along said Northwesterly line of
Scranton Road S.W., 283.39 feet to a
5/8" capped iron pin set at its intersection with a Westerly line of the
Ohio Canal Lands, now in the name
of the CSX Railroad and the principal place of beginning of the area
herein intended to be described:
Course No. 1: Thence South 17°
30' 30" East along said Westerly
line of the Ohio Canal Lands, 67.53
feet to a 5/8" capped iron pin set at
its intersection with the southeasterly line of said Scranton Road
S.W.;
Course No. 2: Thence South 60° 16'
39" West along said Southeasterly
line of Scranton Road S.W., 17.19
feet to its intersection with the
Southeasterly prolongation of the
Northeasterly face of the Southwesterly bridge abutment;

May 2, 2001
Course No. 3: Thence North 29°
40' 45" West along said Southeasterly prolongation, along the Northeasterly face of said abutment and
along the Northwesterly prolongation thereof, 66.00 feet to its intersection with the aforementioned
Northwesterly
line
of
Scranton
Road S.W.;
Course No. 4: Thence North 60° 16'
39" East along said Northwesterly
line, 31.43 feet to the principal place
of
beginning,
containing
1,604
square feet of land (0.0368 acres),
according to a survey by Garrett &
Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors,; Inc., revised
June 26, 2000, be the same more or
less.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are used only to denote angles.
Section 7. That the access drive
will be placed within the public
right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
6, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including
a Building Permit, shall be obtained
before said access drive is constructed.
Section 8. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been property indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 9. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
lease to Tower City, certain property which is determined to be not
needed for public use for the term
of the lease and which is described
as follows:
0.2762 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
S.S. Stone’s Central Tract as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2,
Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, and further known as
being part of lands acquired by the
City of Cleveland for the Central
Viaduct, 100 feet wide, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a Stone Monument in
the centerline of West 3rd Street, 70
feet wide and variable, (formerly
Seneca
Street,
formerly
Central
Way) at its intersection with the
centerline of the Central Viaduct,
100 feet wide;
Thence North 34° 01' 05" West
along the centerline of West 3rd
Street, 59.45 feet to its intersection
with the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct;
Thence South 23° 14' 10" West
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, 41.61 feet to an iron
pin set at its intersection with the
Southwesterly line of West 3rd
Street, and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described;
Thence South 34° 01' 05" East
along the Southwesterly line of
West 3rd Street, 80.45 feet to an iron
pin set at its intersection with the

The City Record
Northwesterly line of the Inner-Belt
Freeway (I-90), 150 feet wide;
Thence Southwesterly along the
curved Northwesterly line of the
Inner-Belt Freeway, being the arc of
a curve deflecting to the left, 219.44
feet to an iron pin set at its intersection with the Northeasterly line
of West 4th Street, 50 feet wide, said
arc having a radius of 3894.72 feet,
a central angle of 03° 13' 42", and
a chord which bears South 31° 40'
50" West, 219.41 feet;
Thence North 34° 00' 25" West
along the Northeasterly line of West
4th Street, 42.15 feet to an iron pin
set at its intersection with the
Northwesterly line of the Central
Viaduct;
Thence North 23° 14' 10" East
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, 237.75 feet to the
principal place of beginning, and
containing 12,031 square feet or
0.2762 acres of land according to the
survey by Donald G. Bohning &
Associates, Inc. dated December,
1998.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
0.4041 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
S.S. Stone’s Central Tract as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2,
Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, and further known as
being part of lands acquired by the
City of Cleveland for the Central
Viaduct, 100 feet wide, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a Stone Monument in
the centerline of West 3rd Street, 70
feet wide and variable, (formerly
Seneca
Street,
formerly
Central
Way) at its intersection with the
centerline of the Central Viaduct,
100 feet wide;
Thence North 34° 01' 05" West
along the centerline of West 3rd
Street, 59.45 feet to its intersection
with the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct;
Thence North 23° 14' 10" East
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, 41.61 feet to an iron
pin set at its intersection with the
Northeasterly
line
of
West
3rd
Street, and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described;
Thence North 23° 14' 10" East
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, being also the
Southeasterly line of Parcel 2 of
land
conveyed
to
Tower
City
Riverview Company by deed recorded in Volume 98-13761, Page 1 of the
Official Records of Cuyahoga County, 183.93 feet to an iron pin set at
its intersection with the Southwesterly line of the former Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad right-of-way;
Thence South 35° 12' 39" East
along the Southwesterly line of said
railroad right-of-way, 117.35 feet to
an iron pin set at its intersection
with the Northwesterly line of Parcel 3 of said land conveyed to Tower
City Riverview Company;
Thence South 23° 14' 10" West
along the Northwesterly line of said
land
conveyed
to
Tower
City
Riverview Company, being also the
Southeasterly line of the Central

839

5
Viaduct, 87.08 feet to an iron pin set
at its intersection with the Northwesterly line of the Inner-Belt Freeway (I-90), 150 feet wide;
Thence Southwesterly along the
curved Northwesterly line of the
Inner-Belt Freeway, being the arc of
a curve deflecting to the left, 89.82
feet to an iron pin set at its intersection with the Northeasterly line
of West 3rd Street, said arc having
a radius of 3894.72 feet, a central
angle of 01° 19' 17", and a chord
which bears South 35° 04' 02" West,
89.82 feet;
Thence North 34° 01' 05" West
along the Northeasterly line of West
3rd Street, 97.00 feet to the principal
place of beginning, and containing
17,604 square feet or 0.4041 acres of
land according to the survey by
Donald G. Bohning & Associates,
Inc. dated December, 1998.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
Section 10. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed ten years, with one
option exercisable by the Director of
Public Service, to renew for an additional ten-year term, and cancellable
upon thirty days written notice by
said director.
Section 11. That the property
described in Section 9 shall be
leased at fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 12. That the lease may
authorize
the
lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 13. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such authorized
terms
and
conditions
as
are
required to protect the interests of
the City.
Section 14. That the Director of
Public Service and the Director of
Law, and other appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such
other documents and certificates,
and take such other actions as may
be necessary or appropriate to effect
the lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 737-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 343.11 and 347.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by various ordinances; and to repeal Section 225.07,
as amended by Ordinance No. 653-92,
relating to tattooing and body piercing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

6
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 343.11, as amended, by
Ordinance No. 1215-2000, passed September 18, 2000; and
Section 347.12 as amended, by
Ordinance No. 876-97, passed June 16,
1997,
are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 343.11 General Retail Business Districts
(a)
“General
retail
business”
means an enterprise for profit for
the convenience and service of, and
dealing directly with, and accessible to, the ultimate consumer; neither injurious to adjacent premises
or to the occupants thereof by reason of the emission of cinders, dust,
fumes, noise, odors, refuse matter,
smoke, vapor or vibrations; nor dangerous
to
life
or
property.
It
includes buildings or spaces necessary to a permitted use for making
or storing articles to be sold at
retail on the premises. Except as
provided in division (b) of this section, it does not include any establishment which supplies a retail
outlet other than that on the premises, or any building or use specifically mentioned as permitted only
in a Semi-Industry or Industry District.
(b) Permitted Buildings and Uses.
The following buildings and uses
are permitted in a General Retail
Business District; and no buildings
or premises shall hereafter be erected,
altered,
used,
arranged
or
designed to be used, in whole or in
part for other than one or more of
the following specified uses:
(1) Except as otherwise provided
in this Zoning Code, all uses permitted and as regulated in any
Local Retail Business District.
(2) All retail business uses and
buildings specified in division (b) of
Section 343.01, and uses and buildings to provide for:
A. The sale of food and beverages
of all kinds, including sale for consumption on the premises;
B. The sale of general merchandise, including sale in department
stores;
C. The sale of apparel of all
kinds;
D. The sale of furniture and
household goods, including furniture
and accessory furniture storage;
E. The sale of other goods or merchandise;
F. Eating places of all types;
G. Service establishments: service
establishments permitted in a Local
Retail Business District without limitation on the number of persons
engaged in such work or business;
mortuary or undertaking establishment; printing shop, provided not
more than five persons are engaged
in such work or business; research
laboratory, radio or television station, telephone exchange or transformer station, provided all buildings and structures except fences
and barriers are located not less
than fifteen feet from a Residence
District; hospital, sanitarium, convalescent home, rest home, nursing

The City Record
home, orphanage or home for the
infirm or aged, provided that all
main buildings are not less than fifteen feet from any adjoining premises in a Residence District not used
for a similar purpose; cat and dog
hospital or pet shop, provided noise
and odors are effectively confined to
the premises.
H. Business offices and services:
in addition to the uses permitted in
Local Retail Districts, office buildings, banks, business colleges, private trade schools.
I. Automotive services: in addition
to the uses permitted in Local Retail
Districts:
1. Service garage.
2. Automobile laundry, provided
the premises are located not less
than 100 feet from a Residence District.
3. Parking lot.
4. Lot for the sale of new and secondhand motor vehicles or trailers
except those of more than two tons
net weight provided that all vehicles advertising matter, and all
structures, movable or fixed, are
kept back of a structurally-sound
barrier at least one and one-half feet
high located as follows:
a. Where the building line is back
of the street line, the barrier shall
be located on or back of the setback
building line.
b. Where the distance from the
street line to the front lines of the
nearest buildings at the sides of the
premises and within 100 feet of the
premises is less than that required
by division (I)(4)A.1.a. of this section, the barrier may be erected to
a line joining the near front corners
of such buildings, or at the average
distance of such buildings from the
street line.
5. Service station which meets all
the requirements and provisions of
Section 343.13.
J. House trailer or travel trailer
park, as defined in Section 3733.01
of the Revised Code, when approved
by the Board of Zoning Appeals
after public hearing, and when used
and maintained in conformity with
any conditions specified in such
approval.
K. Signs: signs permitted in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 350.
L.
Amusement
and
recreation:
armory, assembly hall, bowling alley, dance hall, video and pinball
arcade, pool and billiards, theater,
skating rink or other social, sport or
recreational center operated as a
business, all such uses subject to
the regulations of Section 347.12 and
adult entertainment uses, subject to
Section 347.07, provided that the
place or building in which any such
amusement or recreation use is operated is sufficiently sound-insulated
to confine the noise to the premises.
M. Transportation services: railroad station; public service station;
bus passenger station; bus terminal,
provided the roadway of the street
upon which the bus entrance or exit
is located is at least forty-four feet
wide between curbs.
N. Office, display or sales space of
a wholesale, jobbing or distributing
establishment and specifically mentioned as permitted only in a less
restricted
district,
in
connection
with which not more than twenty-

840

May 2, 2001
five percent of the floor area of the
building or part of the building
occupied by the establishment is
used for making, assembling, remodeling, repairing, altering, finishing
or refinishing its products or merchandise and provided that:
1. Any resulting cinders, dust,
fumes, noise, odors, refuse matter,
smoke, vapor or vibration is effectively confined to the premises.
2. The ground floor premises facing upon and visible from a major
street upon which the premises abut
shall be used only for entrances,
offices or display.
3. Adequate off-street loading and
unloading facilities are provided
and so designed that any standing
vehicles using them shall be within
the property lines and be either not
visible from streets within Retail
Business, Local Retail Business or
Residence District, or not nearer
than fifty feet to such streets.
O. Retail poultry business: either
as a main use or as an accessory
use,
including
the
storing
and
killing of poultry or game to be sold
entirely at retail upon the premises
and directly to the ultimate consumer, provided that the enterprise
is conducted in strict compliance
with all applicable statutes, laws,
rules
and
regulations,
including
those requiring rat-proofing, and
that adjacent premises or the occupants thereof are not injured by reason of the emission of dust, odor,
smoke or noise or the accumulation
of refuse or offal, and provided further that the buildings in which the
killing, storing and selling are done
are either detached masonry structures or part of a masonry building
used entirely for the handling of
poultry and/or game.
1. A detached masonry structure
used for slaughtering or for storing
of live poultry shall have not less
than 100 square feet of floor area
and shall be located at least ten feet
from any other building or part
thereof on the same lot which is
used for human habitation, or as a
place where other food is prepared,
placed, kept or sold.
2. Where the slaughtering room is
part of a masonry building used
entirely for the handling of poultry
and/or
game,
such
slaughtering
room shall be separated from the
sales or storage room by a solid
masonry wall in which there may be
only one opening not greater than
four square feet in size, located not
less than four feet above the floors
of both rooms, equipped with either
a self-closing window or self-closing
door. Such slaughtering room shall
be entered only from outside the
building.
3. In either case, such slaughtering room shall be used only for
killing, flicking and dressing and
shall be not less than twenty-five
feet from the boundary of the
premises upon which it is located.
All offal and refuse must be kept in
covered
containers
within
such
slaughtering room until removed
from the premises.
4. Such slaughtering room and
every building, room or space used
for storage or sale of poultry or
game in connection therewith shall
be not less than 300 feet from any
Residence District, church, school,

May 2, 2001
playground, library or building of
Institutional H Occupancy classification.
P. Tattooing and body piercing.
As used in this division:
1. “Body Piercing” means the
piercing of any part of the body by
someone other than a physician
licensed under Chapter 4731 of the
Revised Code, who utilizes a needle
or other instrument for the purpose
of inserting an object into the body
for
non-medical
purposes;
body
piercing
includes
ear
piercing
except when the ear piercing procedure is performed on the ear with
an ear piercing gun.
2. “Tattoo” means any method utilizing needles or other instruments
by someone other than a physician
licensed under Chapter 4731 of the
Revised Code, to permanently place
designs,
letters,
scrolls,
figures,
symbols or any other marks upon or
under the skin of a person with ink
or any other substance resulting in
an alteration of the appearance of
the skin.
Q. Any other building, use or service similar to the uses herein listed in the type of services or goods
sold, in the number of persons or
cars to be attracted to the premises or in the effect upon adjacent
areas in more restricted use districts.
R. Any accessory use customarily
incident to a use authorized by this
section, except that no use specified
in divisions (b) and (c) of Section
345.04 as prohibited or permitted
only by special permit in a General
Industry District shall be permitted
as an accessory use.
(3) Hotels.
(4) Motels.
(5) Charitable institutions, including correctional halfway houses, as
regulated in Section 347.15; and
notwithstanding any Section of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Cuyahoga County Youth Intervention
Center, providing temporary detention and shelter for juveniles, to be
located at East 93rd Street and
Quincy Avenue.
Section 347.12 Amusement, Recreation, Tattooing and Body Piercing
Uses
Except as provided in Section
347.07 regarding
land
used for
adult
entertainment
purposes,
where permitted in a particular use
district, amusement, recreation, tattooing and body piercing uses, as
described in Section 343.11, are subject to the following location regulations:
(a) Separation. No such use shall
be established within five hundred
(500) feet of a residential district or
day care center, kindergarten, elementary or secondary school, public
library, church, playground, public
or nonprofit recreation center or
community center.
(b) Spacing. No such use shall be
established
within
five
hundred
(500) feet of another such use.
(c) Separation from Adult Enter tainment. No pool or billiard hall or
video or pinball arcade shall be
established within one thousand
(1,000) feet of an adult entertainment use as defined in Section
347.07.

The City Record
(d) Appeals. The Board of Zoning appeals may approve an application which does not meet the regulations of this section if, after
public notice
and
hearing,
the
Board determines that the proposed
use, by virtue of its nature and
location, will not adversely affect
nearby residential areas or other
protected uses listed in division (a)
of this section.
The Board may
impose any conditions deemed necessary to prevent potential adverse
impacts.
Section 2. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 225.07, as amended by
Ordinance No. 653-92, passed March
23, 1992,
Section 343.11, as amended, by
Ordinance No. 1215-2000, passed September 18, 2000; and
Section 347.12 as amended, by
Ordinance No. 876-97, passed June 16,
1997,
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Health,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 738-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to expend Community Development Block Grant
funds for the operation of the Project Clean Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27 from the
United States Government, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to expend Community Development Block Grant
funds in the amount of Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($700,000.00),
from Fund No. 14 SF 027, Request
No. 36384, for the operation of the
Project Clean Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds hereunder the Director of
Community Development shall enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purposes described in Section 1
above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

841

7
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, C o mmunity
Development,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Community
and
Economic
Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 739-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
expend
Federal
HOME
Program
funds
for
the
administration of Housing Rehabilitation Programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Year 2001 Federal
HOME Program grant from the
United States Government, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to expend Federal HOME
Program funds for the administration of the Housing Rehabilitation
Programs.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for professional services
related to inspecting properties to
comply with Section 8 Housing Quality Standards (HQS).
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the expenditure and the contracts
authorized in Sections 1 and 2 shall
be in an amount not to exceed
$500,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 13 SF 929.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 740-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and the Community
Relations Board to expend Community Development Block Grant funds
for fair housing services.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Community Relations Board is hereby authorized to expend Community

The City Record

8
Development Block Grant funds for
fair housing services.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Relations Board is hereby authorized to enter into contracts
with outside agencies for the purpose of providing fair housing services in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant
Program.
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds hereunder the Director of
Community Development shall enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Director of the Community Relations Board for the purposes described in Sections 1 and 2
above.
Section 4. That the aggregate cost
of the expenditure and the contracts
authorized in Sections 1 and 2 shall
be in an amount not to exceed
$200,000.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 027 Request No.
36385.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from the after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 741-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts to provide for the
demolition, removal or the boarding
up of structures within the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27 from the
United States Government, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into one or
more contracts for the demolition,
removal or the boarding up of
structures within the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract or contracts shall be in an
amount not to exceed $3,450,000.00
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SF 027 RL 36383.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under said program and to utilize
said repayments and other program
income in a revolving fund for making additional expenditures under
this program, and such funds are
hereby appropriated for that purpose.

May 2, 2001
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment
of
fees
under
the
City’s
Demolition/Board Up Program.
Section 5. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be and is hereby authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan, administered by the City
under the City’s Demolition/Board
Up Program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to collect from persons or
entities from whom the City is collecting demolition costs an amount
equal to any amount spent for services related to collection of demolition cost, such as title searches,
credit bureau reports, and document
filing fees. Any funds collected shall
be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 742-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 55466 for the rehabilitation of West 32nd Street between Walbrook Avenue and Oak Park Avenue
with Rockport Construction and Materials, for the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to make the following alterations and
modifications in Contract No. 55466 with Rockport Construction and Materials for the rehabilitation of West 32nd
Street between Walbrook Avenue and Oak Park Avenue, for the Department of Public Service:
Subsidiary Additions
Correcting large areas of soft subgrade
necessary to stabilize pavement and
providing for a police officer to
direct traffic by Cullen Bryant
Elementary School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $18,000.00
Original Contract Amount

$ 327,314.00

Subsidiary Additions
REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

+ 18,000.00
$ 345,314.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Public Service, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on said contract, which price to be paid therefor has been agreed upon
in writing and signed by the Director of Public Service and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase
in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $18,000.00, to be paid from Fund. No. 10 SF 166, Request No.
34456.
Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service, Finance.

842

May 2, 2001
Ord. No. 743-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various hand and power
tools, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of various hand and power tools, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 43012)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 744-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various data entry services to convert 2000 wage and tax
statements from paper documents
and magnetic tape to machine readable magnetic tapes, for the Division of Taxation, Department of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement con-

The City Record
tract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of keying and conversion of 2000 wage
and tax statements from paper documents
and
magnetic
tape
to
machine readable magnetic tapes
per CCA specifications, including
furnishing
media,
transportation
and security in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Taxation, Department of
Finance. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
27893)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 745-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of building materials and
used paving brick, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
building materials and used paving
brick, in the estimated sum of
$2,000,000.00 to be purchased by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
various divisions of City government. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall

843

9
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two years may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 43013)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 746-01.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Rybka,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 115-2000, passed January 24, 2000,
as amended by Ordinance No. 17012000, passed September 25, 2000,
relating to the public improvement
of rehabilitating and improving the
baseball diamonds at Jasper Field
through the use of Workers’ compensation Neighborhood Capital Project Funds in Ward 18.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 115-2000,
passed January 24, 2000, as amended
by
Ordinance
No.
1701-2000,
passed September 25, 2000, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and improving the baseball diamonds
located
at
Jasper
Field
through the use of Workers’ Compensation Neighborhood Capital Project Funds in Ward 18, and authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement.
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and improving the baseball diamonds located at
Jasper Field in Ward 18 of the City
of Cleveland for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
That the Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
for the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest

10
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1152000, passed January 24, 2000, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1701-2000,
passed September 25, 2000, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 747-01.
By Councilmen White, Rybka,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 2 of Ordinance
No. 847-2000, passed June 19, 2000,
relating to the sale of City-owned
property no longer needed for public use located at the corner of
Broadway Avenue and Booth Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 847-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the corner of Broadway
Avenue
and
Booth
Avenue
to
Broadway-Booth Car Wash, LLC.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above described property to Broadway-Booth Car Wash, LLC. at a
price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control, taking into account such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as are deemed necessary or appropriate
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 8472000, passed June 19, 2000, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
FIRST READING
ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 748-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An
ordinance
to
establish
a
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
Overlay District and approve the
corresponding Planned Unit Development project on properties located
west of East 40 Street to approximately East 34 Street between Community College Avenue, S.E. and
Woodland
Avenue,
S.E.
and
to
change the Area District of said
lands (Map Change No. 2030, Sheet
No. 5)
Whereas, New Longwood Associates, L.P. c/o The Finch Group has
submitted an application to the
Director of the City Planning Commission proposing the creation of a
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
Overlay District on properties located west of East 40 Street to approximately East 34 Street between Community College Avenue, S.E. and
Woodland Avenue, S.E. and construction of a PUD project to be
known as Longwood Apartments;
and
Whereas, the Director of the City
Planning Commission has accepted
said application and has provided
written notification of his acceptance of the application to the member of the Council in whose ward
the proposed PUD Overlay District
and PUD project are located, and
said member of Council has not
objected; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that
the proposed PUD Overlay District
and PUD project meet the purposes
and the approval standards set forth
in Chapter 334 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976; now,
therefore;
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the area outlined
on the site plan and described in the
legal description contained in Map
Change No. 2030, and known as the
Longwood Apartments project be
and the same is hereby designated
as a Planned Unit Development
(PUD) Overlay District, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 334 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
Section 2. That the designation of
land described in Section 1 and outlined in red on the map hereto
attached shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2030, Sheet No. 5 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and in the office of the City
Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the PUD project
depicted in the site plan contained
in the above mentioned file which
has been proposed for the PUD Overlay District created by Section 1,
and which is to be known as the
Longwood Apartments project.
Section 4. That the Area District
of lands bounded and described as
follows,

844

May 2, 2001
Legal Description
P.U.D. Boundary
April 3, 2001
File No. 12125-LD019
NEFF & ASSOCIATES
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original 10 Acre Lots, Nos. 40, 41, 42, 43,
44 and 45 and is further bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a stone found at the
intersection of the center line of
Community College Avenue, S.E. (60
feet wide) with the center line of
East 38th Street (60 feet wide);
Course 1: Thence North 86 degrees,
53 minutes, 40 seconds East, along
said center line of Community College Avenue, S.E., a distance of 33.05
feet;
Course 2: Thence South 00 degrees, 01 minutes, 35 seconds West,
a distance of 358.55 feet;
Course 3: Thence South 89 degrees, 59 minutes, 25 seconds East,
a distance of 332.93 feet;
Course 4: Thence South 00 degrees, 02 minutes, 20 seconds East,
a distance of 190.00 feet;
Course 5: Thence North 89 degrees,
57 minutes, 40 seconds East, a distance of 299.50 feet to the center line
of East 40th Street (99 feet wide);
Course 6: Thence South 00 degrees, 02 minutes, 20 seconds East,
along said center line of East 40th
Street, a distance of 667.87 feet to a
1" iron pin found at the intersection
with the center line of Woodland
Avenue, S.E. (99 feet wide);
Course 7: Thence North 89 degrees,
59 minutes, 15 seconds West, along
said
center
line
of
Woodland
Avenue, S.E., a distance of 1090.72
feet to an angle point therein at the
intersection with the center line of
East 37th Street (60 feet wide);
Course 8: Thence South 89 degrees, 59 minutes, 45 seconds West,
continuing along said center line of
Woodland Avenue, S.E., a distance
of 561.50 feet;
Course 9: Thence North 00 degrees,
00 minutes, 10 seconds East, a distance of 440.83 feet;
Course 10: Thence North 89 degrees, 59 minutes, 50 seconds West,
a distance of 100.00 feet;
Course 11: Thence North 00 degrees, 00 minutes, 10 seconds East,
a distance of 714.57 feet to the center line of Community College Avenue, S.E., as aforesaid;
Course 12: Thence North 86 degrees, 53 minutes, 40 seconds East,
along said center line of Community College Avenue, S.E., a distance
of 906.96 feet;
Course 13: Thence South 00 degrees, 01 minutes, 35 seconds West,
a distance of 372.41 feet;
Course
14:
Thence
South
89
degrees, 58 minutes, 25 seconds
East, a distance of 153.68 feet;
Course 15: Thence North 00 degrees, 01 minutes, 35 seconds East,
a distance of 380.81 feet to the center line of Community College Avenue, S.E., as aforesaid;
Course 16: Thence North 86 degrees, 53 minutes, 40 seconds East,
along said center line of Community College Avenue, S.E., a distance
of 27.04 feet to the place of beginning and containing 39.2768 Acres
(1,710,899 Square Feet) of land.
Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached be and the same are

May 2, 2001
hereby changed to a ‘E’ Area District.
Section 5. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 4 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2030, Sheet No. 5 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 749-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force
to stretch one (1) banner between
Euclid Ave. & London Rd. near Good
Shepard Church using C.P.P. utility
poles (by separate permission) for
the period of April 24, 2001 to May
4, 2001, inclusive publicizing the
“National Day of Prayer”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force, P.O. Box
81321, Cleveland, Ohio 44181, to
install, maintain and remove one (1)
banner to be hung using Cleveland
Public Power utility poles, (by separate permission) publicizing the
“National Day of Prayer” for the
period of April 24, 2001 to May 4,
2001, inclusive, and which banners
are to be hung at the following pole
locations and numbers: on Euclid
Avenue at London Road, near the
Good Shepherd Baptist Church, a
vinyl banner with two-sided text,
pole numbers NH-3-57-14-1-1, and NH3-57-14-1-1-A; which poles and locations shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner,
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 750-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
The Cleveland Catholic Diocese, for
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Church to
hang approximately (20) twenty
banners on the north & south sides
of Detroit Avenue using C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission)
for the period of April 4, 2001 to May
4, 2001, inclusive, publicizing their
Church’s 75th Anniversary in service
to the community.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to The
Cleveland Catholic Diocese for Our
Lady of Mt. Carmel Church, 6928
Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, to
install,
maintain
and
remove
approximately twenty (20) banners
to be hung using Cleveland Public
Power utility poles, (by separate
permission)
publicizing
their
Church’s 75th Anniversary in service to the community for the period of April 11, 2001 to May 11, 2001,
inclusive, and which banners are to
be hung at the following pole locations and numbers: on the north
side of Detroit Avenue at 6902
Detroit, pole #TT-38; Church Driveway, pole #TT-39; 6928 Detroit, pole
#TT-40; Church Bldg., pole #TT-41;
7000 Detroit, pole #TT-42; 7006
Detroit, pole #TT-43; Berry’s Parking Lot, pole #TT-44, 7200 Detroit,
pole #TT-45; 6901 Detroit, pole
#TT-3
(4875);
6907
Detroit,
pole#TT-4; 6917 Detroit, pole #TT5; 6929 Detroit, pole #TT-6; 7001
Detroit,
pole
#TT-7;
McDonalds
Restaurant on Detroit Avenue, pole
#TT-8; Auto Parts Store Parking
Lot on Detroit Avenue, pole #TT-9,
Across from Detroit Avenue from
Berry’s Funeral Home, pole #TT-10;
and which poles and locations shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation with the

845

11
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner, and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 751-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Ordinance No. 454-01, passed March
12, 2001.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 45401, passed March 12, 2001, is hereby
repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otheiwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.

12
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 753-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8716
Cedar Avenue, and repealing Res.
No. 1328-2000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to 8716 Cedar Avenue by
Res. No. 1328-2000 adopted by Council July 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8716 Cedar Avenue, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 1328-2000, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 754-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to
3146 West 14th Street, and repealing
Res. No. 184-01 objecting to said
transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 3146 West 14th
Street by Res. No. 184-01 adopted by
Council February 5, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above transfer of ownership and
consents to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 3146 West 14th Street, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 184-01, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 755-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 9200 Wade
Park Ave., Unit EA10.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 6273858, Mydis LTD, DBA
My Food, 9200 Wade Park Ave., Unit
EA10, Cleveland, Ohio 44106; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

846

May 2, 2001
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 6273858, Mydis LTD, DBA
My Food, 9200 Wade Park Ave., Unit
EA10, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 756-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 7038 Linwood, 1st Fl.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 3350209, Annette Green,
DBA Greens Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has oper-

May 2, 2001
ated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 3350209, Annette Green,
DBA Greens Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.

The City Record
Res. No. 757-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1795
East 55th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
3160612, Elias Ghazal, DBA Big Star
Eagle Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 to Permit No.
77052750005, Sammor Inc., DBA Big
Star Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
3160612, Elias Ghazal, DBA Big Star
Eagle Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 to Permit No.
77052750005, Sammor Inc., DBA Big
Star Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

847

13
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 758-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 5718 Bridge Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 7467795, Norma Rodriguez,
DBA
Grocery
Store,
5718
Bridge Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44102;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

14
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 7467795, Norma Rodriguez,
DBA
Grocery
Store,
5718
Bridge Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44102
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 759-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 1204 East 105th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1921184, Mary Daniels,
DBA McDaniels Mini Market, 1204
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it

The City Record
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1921184, Mary Daniels,
DBA McDaniels Mini Market, 1204
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44108 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 760-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 15504 Waterloo Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1895520, Bechara E.
Daher, DBA Freeway Service & Mini
Mart, 15504 Waterloo Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

848

May 2, 2001
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1895520, Bechara E.
Daher, DBA Freeway Service & Mini
Mart, 15504 Waterloo Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.

May 2, 2001
Res. No. 761-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 910 East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit
No.
56036170115,
Mascot
Petroleum Co. Inc., DBA Sunoco Sunmart, 910 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 56036170115, Mascot Petroleum Co. Inc., DBA Sunoco Sunmart,
910 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44119 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 762-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Jones.
An emergency resolution supporting H.R. 1032 prohibiting oil and gas
exploration in the Great Lakes and
urging its prompt passage by Congress.
Whereas,
Congressman
Dennis
Kucinich recently introduced H.R.
1032 in the United States House of
Representatives prohibiting oil and
gas exploration, including any slant
or directional drilling, in the Great
Lakes region; and
Whereas, directional drilling allows exploration companies to drill
on land at an angle to reserves
below the lake bottom and such
drilling may extend for miles; and
Whereas, the practice of directional drilling raises concerns about
potential oil leaks and the release
of the potentially lethal chemical,
hydrogen sulfide, into the lake
waters; and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland believes that oil and
gas exploration in the Great Lakes
presents a potential health hazard
to the 35 million people living near
the Great Lakes, including residents
of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council joins with
Senator Voinovich, State Representatives Brian Flannery and Christopher
Redfern,
Mayors
Deborah
Sutherland of Bay Village and Donald Umerley of Rocky River, the
Sierra Club and Ohio PIRG, among
others, in prohibiting drilling in the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, this Council urges Congress to pass H.R. 1032 in an expeditious manner; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland believes that oil
and gas exploration in the Great
Lakes presents a potential health
hazard to the 35 million people living near the Great Lakes, including
residents of the City of Cleveland,
and as such, urges the prompt passage of H.R. 1032 by Congress.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby requested to transmit a copy of
this resolution to President George
W. Bush, Speaker of the House of
Representatives Dennis Hastert, and
Congressman Dennis Kucinich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

849

15
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 763-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon.
An emergency resolution supporting the goals and objectives of labor
unions within the City of Cleveland
and nationally; and urging unions to
work together amicably to resolve
any differences that may arise
between labor organizations.
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland, through passage of
numerous pieces of legislation, has
recognized the rights of all workers
to seek safe, fair working conditions
and to be paid equitably for their
work; and
Whereas, this Council, through
passage of numerous pieces of legislation and its actions, has demonstrated support for labor unions
within the City of Cleveland and
nationally; and
Whereas, it is this Council’s hope
and desire that unions can work
together amicably to resolve any
differences that may arise between
organizations in order that all union
members can benefit equitably; and
Whereas, this Council does not
wish to interject this body into an
inter-union labor disagreement and
fervently hopes that any dispute
between labor organizations will be
resolved so as to not adversely impact
the interests of any workers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the goals
and objectives of labor unions within the City of Cleveland and nationally; and it is this Council’s hope
and desire that unions can work
together amicably to resolve any
differences that may arise between
labor organizations.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.

16
Res. No. 764-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, White
and Jones.
An emergency resolution opposing
H.B. 225 that would permit carrying
concealed weapons in Ohio.
Whereas, a bill allowing any
adult to carry a concealed weapon
was recently introduced in the Ohio
House of Representatives, as H.B.
225, which would change Ohio from
one of seven states where concealed
weapons are prohibited, to one of
only two states where concealed
weapons are allowed without any
restrictions; and
Whereas, the proposed legislation
would enact a “Vermont-style” gun
law, which is unique in the United
States for its total lack of restrictions, without any requirement for
safety training, previous weapons
experience or permits; and
Whereas, in addition to the seven
states, including Ohio, where concealed weapons are currently prohibited, there are fourteen states
which prohibit concealed weapons,
except when issued by law enforcement agencies, and twenty-eight
states
which
allow
concealed
weapons for “law-abiding citizens;”
and
Whereas, the proposed bill is
opposed by the Fraternal Order of
Police, and the liberalization of concealed weapons laws is opposed generally by almost every major law
enforcement organization, including
the International Brotherhood of
Police Officers and the International Association of Chiefs of Police;
and
Whereas, an Ohio Poll released
this month found that 69 percent of
Ohioans oppose a law that would
make it easier to get a permit to
carry a concealed weapon, which is
consistent with two previous polls
in 1995 and 1999, and conceal-andcarry
legislation
is
even
more
strongly opposed in Northeast Ohio,
where
73
percent
of
residents
oppose the idea, 79 percent of urban
residents oppose it, and 85 percent
of blacks oppose any such proposal;
and
Whereas, the number of crime
victims
who
successfully
use
firearms to defend themselves is
relatively small, more guns lead to
more crime or at least a much
smaller reduction in the crime rate,
in Texas it was found that the
weapon-related offense rate among
concealed handgun license holders
was more than twice as high as
that of the general population, and
police officers know that the very
sight of a gun can escalate a situation, and lead to greater violence
and injury; and
Whereas, laws allowing the carrying of concealed-weapons have
nothing to do with private firearms
ownership in the home, rather they
relate solely to allowing individuals
to
carry
their
concealed
guns
almost anywhere in the community,
including churches, stores, malls,
theaters, parks, offices, City Hall,
RTA, and other public places; now
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes the passage of H.B. 225, or any
legislation that would change Ohio’s
concealed weapons prohibition. That

The City Record
this Council also urges the Ohio
General Assembly to reject the proposed legislation, or any variation
of it, and urges Governor Taft to
veto any such legislation should it
be approved by the General Assembly. This Council urges Governor
Taft to announce that he will veto
the legislation should it reach his
desk.
Section 2. That copies of this
Resolution shall be provided by the
Clerk of Council to State Representative Tom Brinkman, the sponsor
of the bill, to the House and Senate
leadership, to Governor Taft, and
the Northeast Ohio delegation to the
General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 765-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to the
improvement of West 117th Street
from Madison Avenue to approximately 100 feet north of Clifton
Boulevard by constructing an amenity strip in the sidewalk and emplacing tree pockets along the public
right-of-way.
Whereas, this Council did, on the
12th day of February, 2001, duly
adopt
Resolution
No.
2124-2000,
declaring therein the necessity of
improvement of West 117th Street
from Madison Avenue to approximately 100 feet north of Clifton
Boulevard by constructing an amenity strip in the sidewalk and emplacing tree pockets along the public
right-of-way; and
Whereas, pursuant to said resolution, the estimated assessments for
said improvement have been prepared and placed on file in the
office of the Clerk of this Council;
and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
said resolution and of the filing of
said estimated assessments has been
duly served upon all property owners to be assessed in the manner
provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to said
estimated assessments have been
filed by one or more such property
owners; and

850

May 2, 2001
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
Ms.
Magda
Gomez, Ms. Barbara Mullally and
Ms. Bobbi Reichtell, three disinterested freeholders of said City, be
and the same hereby are appointed
as
an
assessment
equalization
board, to hear and determine all
written objections filed in accordance with law to the estimated
assessments heretofore filed with
the Clerk of this Council pursuant
to Resolution No. 2124-2000 of this
Council.
Said
board
is
hereby
authorized and directed to equalize
such assessments as it deems proper to conform to the standards prescribed by Resolution No. 2124-2000
and by law.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at
10:00 o’clock, a.m. on 15th day of
May, 2001, at Cleveland City Hall,
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 509, for
the purposes aforesaid, and upon
completion of such hearing and any
adjournments thereof, shall report
its recommendations, including any
changes which should be made in
the estimated assessments, to this
Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to notify, by certified
mail, each person who has filed
timely written objection to said estimated assessments of the time and
place of the hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 766-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 8615-17 Denison Front.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 97169300005, Judith H.
Withrow, DBA Rogers Grocery, 861517 Denison Front, Cleveland, Ohio
44102; and

May 2, 2001
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 97169300005, Judith H.
Withrow, DBA Rogers Grocery, 861517 Denison Front, Cleveland, Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.

The City Record
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 767-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 9911 Miles
Avenue, and repealing Res. No. 57101 objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 9911 Miles Avenue by Res. No.
571-01 adopted by Council March 26,
2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
9911 Miles Avenue, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
571-01, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate issuance thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Res. No. 768-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 12107-09 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 74015602630, Rite Aid of
Ohio Inc., DBA Rite Aid Disc Pharm
2630,
12107-09
St.
Clair
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and

851

17
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record
its
objection to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 74015602630, Rite Aid of
Ohio Inc., DBA Rite Aid Disc Pharm
2630, 12107-09 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.

The City Record

18
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 870-2000.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving additional amendments to the
Euclid-Prospect
Area
Community
Development Plan.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 2, 3, and
4 in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following: “Approving
the Euclid/Prospect II Community
Development Plan Area.”.
2. Strike the second and third
whereas clause in its entirety and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Whereas, the City Planning Commission has replaced the Euclid
Prospect Area Community Development Plan with the Euclid/Prospect
II Community Development Plan
which Plan shall supersede the findings and recommendations of the
original Plan; and
Whereas, pursuant to notice duly
given, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on the
Euclid/Prospect
II
Community
Development
Plan,
and
has
approved such Plan; and”.
3. In the fourth whereas clause,
strike lines 1 and 2 in their entirety and insert in lieu thereof the following: “Whereas, the document
entitled “Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan,” dated
March, 2001,”; in line 8 and in line
14, strike “amended”.
4. In the sixth whereas clause,
line 3, strike “Amendments”; in line
5, strike “amended”.
5. In Section 1, strike lines 3, 4, 5
and 6 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof “determined that the
Euclid/Prospect
II
Community
Development Plan is adopted in the
respects set forth in the above-mentioned file, which Plan includes
without limitation, the Land Use
Restrictions thereof”.
6. In Section 2, line 3, strike
“amendments to the Euclid Prospect
Area” and insert in lieu thereof
“Euclid/Prospect II”; and line 7,
strike “, as amended,”.
7. In Section 3, line 2 and in line
4, strike “as amended”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 2015-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing,
relocating and constructing certain
NASA facilities in order to permit
the construction of Runway 5L/23R;
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contracts for
the making of such improvement;
authorizing contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and other items required to
make the improvement, including
rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
acquire such interests in real property as are necessary to make the
public improvement.

Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 19, after
“improvement;” insert the following:
“authorizing contracts with Siemens,
Inc. and Cutler Hammer for the purchase of computer-based distributed
control systems;”.
2. In Section 2, strike lines 4, 5, 6,
and 7 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following: “bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price, provided however, that each
separate”; and at the end of the section, add the following new sentence
to read as follows: “The Director of
Port Control shall present the one
hundred
percent
(100%)
design
drawings for the Improvement to
the Chairman of the Aviation and
Transportation Committee and the
Chairman of the Finance Committee
for their review prior to the award
of the contract(s) authorized by this
division, for the making of the
Improvement.”.
3. Insert new Sections 9 and 10, to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 9. That it is hereby determined that certain commodities necessary for the Improvement are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Siemens,
Inc. Therefore, the Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
make
a
written
contract
with
Siemens, Inc. for the purchase of the
following
computer-based
distributed control systems: the PPSS Life
Safety System, and the EMCS Energy Management Control System, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, upon an
amount determined by the Board of
Control and pursuant to terms and
conditions acceptable to the Director
of Law.
Section 10. That it is hereby determined that certain commodities necessary for the Improvement are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Cutler
Hammer. Therefore, the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written contract with Cutler
Hammer for the purchase of the following computer-based distributed
control system: the IMPAC Power
Monitoring System, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, upon an amount determined by the Board of Control and
pursuant to terms and conditions
acceptable to the Director of Law.”.
4. Renumber existing Sections 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15, respectively, to new “Section 11”, “Section 12”,
“Section 13”, “Section 14”, “Section
15”, “Section 16”, and “Section 17”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 27-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a project agreement with MRN Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership for the acquisition,
clearance and redevelopment of certain lands in the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan Area.

852

May 2, 2001
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, at (e), line 3,
strike “and” and insert new division
(f) to read as follows:
“(f) an agreement by the Redeveloper to use best efforts to meet
the
following
Minority
Business
Enterprise and Female Business
Enterprise construction contractor
participation goals:
30% MBE; and
10% FBE; and”
and reletter existing (f) to new
“g”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 85-01.
By Councilman Westbrook (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Cudell Improvement, Inc. to encroach into the rightof-way of Detroit Avenue between
West 110th and West 117th Streets
with approximately nineteen (19)
banners to be attached to CPP utility poles (by separate permission)
for an on-going banner program for
the Detroit Business District.
Approved by Directors of Service,
City Planning, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Service, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 4 to read as
follows:
“Section
4.
That
the
banners
authorized by this ordinance shall
be reviewed by the City Planning
Commission.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 4 to
new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 444-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a First Amendment to Contract No. 56401 with
Kamms Corners Development Corporation to provide additional neighborhood revitalization activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 538-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Minority Health Commission for
the Diabetes Action Plan Program;
and to enter into contract with the
Diabetes
Association
of
Greater
Cleveland to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 3, strike “and
accept” and beginning in line 6,
strike “; and to enter into contract
with the Diabetes Association of
Greater Cleveland to implement the
program”.
2. In Section 1, line 2, strike “and
accept”; and strike lines 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10 and 11 in their entirety and insert

May 2, 2001
in lieu thereof “Commission, to conduct the Diabetes Action Plan Program.”.
3. Strike Section 3 in its entirety,
and renumber existing Section 4 to
new “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 540-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of animal trapping services,
for the Division of Environment,
Department of Public Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $60,000 and shall”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 541-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency for financial assistance for
the operation of the Division of Environment; and authorizing said Director to enter into contracts for the
purchase of service and equipment
necessary to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike
“$2,514,960” and insert in lieu thereof “$2,554,960”.
2. In Section 2, line 5, strike
“$393,000” and insert in lieu thereof
“$491,250”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 613-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for the 2001 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging Grant.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 615-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply and accept a grant
from the State of Ohio Department of
Development to conduct the State
Home Weatherization Assistance Program and to enter into contract with
various
organizations,
individual
landlords, tenants and contractors for
the purpose of providing weatherization assistance to low-income City
residents through the State Home
Weatherization Assistance Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 140-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution requiring the laying, re-laying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons,
curbs, gutters and/or castings on

The City Record
certain streets and any associated
corner properties herein named in
the City of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, delete lines 18 and
19 in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
“Woodhaven - Ridge Road to West
63rd Street
“West 59th Street - Memphis to
Ridgeview”.
2. In Section 1, add line 33 to read
as follows:
“Allien Avenue - East of W. 179th
Street to W. 176th Street.”
3. In Section 2, line 1, after “That”
insert the following, “, provided that
eighty percent (80%) of the property owners on each street subject to
this resolution agree to the work
described in Section 1 of this resolution.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Res. No. 317-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency resolution supporting the efforts of the Cleveland
Restoration Society, the Downtown
Cleveland Partnership, and Downtown Ohio, Inc. in preparing a proposal, for submission to members of
the Ohio State Legislature, to provide
a historic property rehabilitation tax
credit for the renovation and maintenance of historic property.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 2219-2000.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 443.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1145-97,
passed July 16, 1997, relating to rates
of fare and receipts for taxicabs.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, strike “Section 443.26” and insert in lieu thereof “Sections 443.26 and 443.261”, and
in line 5, after “July 16, 1997” insert
“and Ordinance No. 2207-97, passed
December 15, 1997”.
2. In Section 1, line 1 and in Section 2, line 1, strike “Section 443.26”
and insert in lieu thereof “Sections
443.26 and 443.261”.
3. In Section 1, line 3, and in Section 2, line 3, strike “is” and insert
in lieu thereof “and Ordinance No.
2207-97, passed December 15, 1997,
respectively, are”.
4. In Section 1, at Section 443.26,
strike division (a)(3) in its entirety.
5. In Section 1, at Section 443.26,
strike divisions (b) and (d) in their
entirety and reletter existing division (c) to “(b)”, and existing divisions (e) and (f), respectively, to
new divisions “(c)” and “(d)”.
6. In Section 1, following the text
of Section 443.26 insert the following:
“Section 443.261 Drivers’ Expenses
Capped; Reporting
(a) Finding. This Council finds
that the wages earned by drivers of
public hacks are inadequate to
insure a sufficient number of taxicabs and capable drivers, and that
the public convenience and necessity require the imposition of a cap

853

19
on the expenses paid by drivers of
public hacks.
(b) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Base rates” means the drivers’ expenses charged by a company, association or independent operator to its drivers on the date of passage of the ordinance that enacts
this section.
(2) “Drivers’ expenses” means all
costs, expenses and fees paid by drivers to a company, association or
independent
operator
currently
charged or hereafter established for
the lease of a public hack, and
includes, by way of example and not
by way of limitation, the costs of
the lease itself, insurance, surcharges, and fuel.
(c) Drivers’ Expenses Capped. For
the
period
of
January
1,
2001
through December 31, 2003 a company, association or independent
operator shall not increase its drivers’ expenses by more than five
percent (5%) over its “base rates”.
In the case of fuel only, changes
in the market price of the commodity may be passed along to drivers,
and any such increase shall not be
counted toward the caps imposed by
this division. Overhead costs associated with the sale of fuel by a company, association or independent
operator are subject to the caps
imposed by this division.
(d) Reporting. Within ten (10)
days after the effective date of this
section, each company, association or
independent operator shall submit a
schedule of its base rates as defined
in division (b) of this section.
On or before December 31 in each
year subsequent to the effective date
of this section, each company, association or independent operator shall
submit its then current drivers’
expenses, identifying any changes to
the same. The requirements of this
paragraph are satisfied by the company, association or independent
operator by a certification of the percentage change in drivers’ expenses
from the previous reporting period.
All reports required by this section
shall be certified by an affidavit by
the owner of the company, association or independent operator, on such
forms as the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall prescribe.”
7. Insert new Sections 3 and 4 to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 3. That Section 443.261 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by this
ordinance shall expire and be of no
further force and effect on December 31, 2003.”
Section 4. That Section 443.26 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by this
ordinance, shall take effect and be
in force thirty (30) days after passage of this ordinance.”
8. Renumber existing Section 3 to
new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 16. Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members Brady, Britt, Cintron, Coats,
Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones,
Lewis, Patmon, Polensek, Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

20
Ord. No. 302-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2377, 2369 East 61st
Street and the northerly part of 6203
Quincy Avenue to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development Inc., or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community
and Economic Development, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 16. Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 492-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the issuance and sale of subordinated airport revenue notes in the
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $46,000,000, in anticipation of
the issuance of bonds, to retire outstanding notes issued to pay costs
of acquiring real property and interests in real property for the purpose
of improving the Airport System.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the definition of
“Original Purchaser”, line 2, after
“Inc.,” insert “Jackson Securities,”.
2. In Section 1, at the definition of
“Project” strike the period at the
end, and insert the following: “, as
more specifically described in Ordinance No. 77-99, passed by the Council on January 14, 1999, which ordinance amended Ordinance No. 68-94,
passed by the Council on January
18, 1994.”.
3. In Section 11, line 1, after “Sale
of Notes.” insert the following new
sentence: “That the Notes are hereby awarded to the following underwriters in the following percentages: SBK-Brooks Investment Corp.,
Senior
Manager,
(40%);
A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Co-Manager,
(20%), Jackson Securities, Co-Senior
Manager,
(20%),
and
Goldman,
Sachs & Co., Co-Manager, (20%).
The following firms are hereby designated to serve as underwriters’
counsel to the Original Purchasers
in the following percentages: Vorys,
Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP,
(85%) and David Hill and Associates, (15%).”
Amendments agreed to.
Motion by Council Member Brady
that the rules be suspended and
Ordinance No. 492-01 be placed on
Third Reading Passage. Seconded
by Council Member Sweeney. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Motion carried. Read
third time in full. Yeas 16. Nays 0.

The City Record
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 658-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Parkworks to provide an
Adult Basic Landscaping Training
Program in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing job
training through the use of Ward 3
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 16. Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1963-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to install and maintain a
Kronos timekeeping system, including hardware, software, training
and project services, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 86-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice for the 2001 Cleveland Community Re-entry Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

854

May 2, 2001
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 136-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to employ one or more
environmental consultants and one
or
more
consultants
to
provide
asbestos evaluation and Phase I
environmental audits; and authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of clean-up and securing of
sites and the removal and disposal
of underground storage tanks, for
the Division of Building and Housing,
Department
of
Community
Development, for a period of one
year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 300-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Urban Forest property
maintenance services, for the Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 439-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to accept a
cash gift from the Estate of Willie
Vivian Edwards to be used for college scholarships and the purchase
of staff shirts, video equipment, and
labor and materials to maintain and
repair video equipment at Zelma
Watson George Recreation Center.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,

May 2, 2001
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 440-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
property adoption agreement with
the Cleveland Baseball Federation
for improvements to Little League
Diamond No. 6 at Luke Easter Park.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 441-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract
with
Boston
Mills
Ski
Resort to provide youth ski lessons
for the 2002 ski season, for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 495-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2002 Federal Child Lead Poison
Prevention Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.

The City Record
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 619-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of fasteners, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
Ord. No. 620-01.
By Councilman and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of exterminating services,
for the various divisions of City
government, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea were: Council
Members
Brady,
Britt,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook, White
and Willis.
Those voting nay: None.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Dolan, Melena, O’Malley
and Rybka.
Absent: Council Member Cimperman.
MOTION
By Council Member Brady and seconded by Council Member Sweeney
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Joseph
C. Cimperman be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 9:17
p.m. to meet Monday, May 7, 2001
at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Ord. No. 548-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of de-icer, for the Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties,

Clerk of Council

855

21
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 870-2000.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2606-81, passed December 14,
1981, this Council approved the
Euclid Prospect Area Community
Development Plan for the Plan Area
designated and described in such
Community Development Plan, and
by Ordinance Nos. 1766-87, passed
November 16, 1987, and 2317-92,
passed December 14, 1992, adopted
certain amendments to said Community Development Plan, and which
Plan contemplated certain activities
and treatment for the elimination of
conditions of blight and deterioration, and for the prevention of recurrence thereof within said Community Development Plan Area; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has replaced the Euclid
Prospect Area Community Development Plan with the Euclid/Prospect
II Community Development Plan
which Plan shall supersede the findings and recommendations of the
original Plan; and
Whereas, pursuant to notice duly
given, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on the
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan, and has approved
such Plan; and
Whereas, the document entitled
“Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan,” dated March, 2001,
and the City Planning Commission
findings and related materials have
been presented to this Council, and
are set forth in File No. 870-2000-A,
and oral reports and testimony
thereon have been presented by City
staff and Council has been apprised
of the facts, conditions, structural
deficiencies, and blighting influences pertaining to the amended
Plan Area, including the existence
of a majority of structures therein
which because of structural deficiencies by reason of age, deterioration, dilapidation, or obsolescence,
or non-conformance with modern
code requirements relating to building, or fire protection, or of existing
conditions therein endangering life
and property by fire or other causes, and because of the existence in
such amended Plan Area of other
conditions which are detrimental to
the public health, safety, morals,
and general welfare; and
Whereas, for the foregoing reasons, Council has determined that
the Plan for the Plan Area, and the
implementation
of
the
measures
therein set forth will be in the best
interests of the citizens of the City
and will provide for the general
health, safety, and welfare of the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of public property, health, and safety in that approval of the Plan is
necessary in order that steps can be
immediately undertaken to eliminate conditions of blight and deterioration in the Plan Area; now,
therefore,

22
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, based upon the
facts
and
conditions
concerning
blight and determined that the
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan is adopted in the
respects set forth in the above-mentioned file, which Plan includes
without limitation, the Land Use
Restrictions thereof.
Section 2. That this Council hereby finds that the public actions and
policies proposed and contemplated
by the Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan are necessary and appropriate in order to
eliminate the conditions of blight
and deterioration, and prevent the
recurrence therein the Plan Area;
and it is hereby found and determined that the Plan conforms to
and is in compliance with the
applicable provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Section 3. That it is hereby found
and determined that the Plan will
afford maximum opportunity consistent with the sound needs of the
City as a whole for redevelopment
of the Plan Area and that the Plan
gives due consideration to the provision of adequate open space, park
and recreational areas appropriate
to the area and that the Plan is in
conformity with the general Plan of
the City and the workable program
for community improvements of the
City.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2015-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing,
relocating and constructing certain
NASA facilities in order to permit
the construction of Runway 5L/23R;
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contracts for
the making of such improvement;
authorizing contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and other items required to
make the improvement, including
rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement;
authorizing contracts with Siemens,
Inc. and Cutler Hammer for the purchase of computer-based distributed
control systems; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire such interests in
real property as are necessary to
make the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of demolishing, relocating and

The City Record
constructing certain NASA facilities
in order to permit the construction
of Runway 5L/23R (“Improvement”).
Section 2. The Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contracts for the making
of the Improvement, by contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price, provided however,
that each separate bid on a unit
price basis provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of such trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the Improvement. The Director of Port Control
shall present the one hundred percent (100%) design drawings for the
Improvement to the Chairman of the
Aviation and Transportation Committee and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee for their review
prior to the award of the contract(s)
authorized by this division, for the
making of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make written standard purchase
contracts and written requirements
contracts in accordance with the
Charter and Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
such requirements not to exceed two
years, for each and all of the necessary items of supplies, material,
equipment and other items required
to make the Improvement, including
the rental of such items, and labor
and materials to install and maintain any and all of the foregoing
items, to be purchased or procured
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such a manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provision
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized
to purchase, lease or otherwise
acquire easements, fee interests,
licenses, permits, mitigation credits,
and other rights or interests in real
property directly necessary for the
Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of
Cleveland all necessary documents
to acquire said rights or interests in
real property directly necessary for
the Improvement and to employ title
companies,
surveyors,
escrow
agents, appraisers, environmental
consultants, and field service consultants necessary for the acquisition or use of the rights or interests
in real property authorized by Section 4 hereof.
Section 6. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with the holders of said rights or interests in real
property to relocate or to otherwise
modify existing buildings, equipment, fixtures or other features of

856

May 2, 2001
said property and to pay or reimburse related costs to permit the
making of the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with federal,
state, and local governmental or regulatory entities or other public
authorities necessary and to pay or
reimburse
directly
related
costs
incurred by such entities for the
purpose of making the Improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and pay for such permits
and licenses required by any regulatory entity or other public authority for making of the Improvement.
Section 9. That it is hereby determined that certain commodities necessary for the Improvement are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Siemens,
Inc. Therefore, the Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
make
a
written
contract
with
Siemens, Inc. for the purchase of the
following
computer-based
distributed control systems: the PPSS Life
Safety System, and the EMCS Energy Management Control System, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, upon an
amount determined by the Board of
Control and pursuant to terms and
conditions acceptable to the Director
of Law.
Section 10. That it is hereby determined that certain commodities necessary for the Improvement are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Cutler
Hammer. Therefore, the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written contract with Cutler
Hammer for the purchase of the following computer-based distributed
control system: the IMPAC Power
Monitoring System, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, upon an amount determined by the Board of Control and
pursuant to terms and conditions
acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 11. That the cost of any
requirement contracts entered into
pursuant to this ordinance shall be
charged against the proper account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon, which purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 12. That, as a condition
precedent to entering into any contracts or agreements contemplated
to
make
the
Improvement,
the
Department of Port Control shall be
in receipt of all necessary federal
approvals, including the Record of
Decision
for
the
Environmental
Impact Statement, and other such
regulatory approvals as may be
required.
Section 13. That the Director of
Port Control shall file a copy of all
contracts,
permits,
licenses
or
agreements entered into by the City
as authorized by this ordinance
with the Clerk of Council, the President of Council, the Chairman of
the Aviation and Transportation
Committee and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee within five (5)

May 2, 2001
business days of execution by the
City.
Section 14. That the cost of any
expenditures
authorized
by
this
ordinance for any contract, including all public improvements, standard purchases, requirements contracts
and
property
acquisition,
shall not exceed a total amount of
$86,908,692.00 and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges and the fund and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue
bonds, federal grants, state grants,
and local grants issued for the purpose of the Improvement authorized
herein.
In
the
event
that
the
Improvement exceeds or is anticipated to exceed the amount specified for each project component listed herein, the Director of Port Control shall notify the President of
Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee,
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee of the need for a subsidiary agreement in accordance
with Section 185.44 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, and shall immediately
proceed to secure the necessary legislative approval from Cleveland
City Council. (RL 8297)
Section 15. That, in accordance
with federal law and to the extent
permitted by federal law, all construction contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance shall establish a goal of hiring at least thirty
percent (30%) MBE, ten percent
(10%)
FBE,
twenty-five
percent
(25%) minority workforce, seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) female
workforce and forty percent (40%)
City residents. In seeking to obtain
such goal, all contractors shall utilize best efforts.
Section 16. That the Director of
Port Control shall provide detailed
bimonthly written reports to the
President of Council, the Chairman
of the Aviation and Transportation
Committee, and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee of all expenditures made pursuant to this ordinance, including the source of funds
for such expenditures. The Director
of Port Control shall also provide to
the aforementioned Council representatives detailed bimonthly written reports of the MBE/FBE goals
and residency and workforce goals
set forth herein.
Section 17. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 27-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a project
agreement with MRN Ltd., an Ohio
limited partnership for the acquisition, clearance and redevelopment of
certain lands in the Euclid/Prospect
II Community Development Plan
Area.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of
Cleveland
by
Ordinance
No.
__________, passed _______, approved
and adopted the Euclid/Prospect II

The City Record
Community Development Plan dated
________ (the “Plan”), for the plan
area designated and described in
said Plan (the “Plan Area”); and
Whereas, the Plan established a
treatment area for a portion of the
Plan Area (the “Treatment Area”) to
achieve some of the following purposes: public or private land acquisition, public or private demolition
or redevelopment of structures, public or private site improvements, or
any combination of these purposes;
and
Whereas, MRN Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership, have submitted a
proposal which the Director of Community Development has determined
to be a satisfactory means of achieving some of the purposes for the
Treatment Area as described in the
Plan; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the public property, health
or safety, in that the authorization
of a project agreement with MRN
Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership
will achieve certain purposes for the
Treatment Area as described in the
Plan; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community Development is authorized
to enter into and execute a project
agreement for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with MRN Ltd., an
Ohio limited partnership (the “Redeveloper”) for the acquisition, disposition and private redevelopment for
the Treatment Area in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan. The
Plan Area is described as follows:
EUCLID — PROSPECT C.D.
PLAN BOUNDARY
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Ontario
Street (99.00 feet wide) with the centerline of West Prospect Avenue
(100.00 feet wide);
Thence Westerly, along the centerline of said West Prospect to its
intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of
property owned by DeBartolo Public
Square Inc. and known as P.P.N. 10123-001 and 101-23-003 A & B;
Thence
Northerly,
along
the
Southerly
prolongation
and
the
Westerly line of said DeBartolo Public Square Inc. property and its
Northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of the
South Roadway of Public Square;
Thence Easterly, along the centerline of the said South Roadway
to its intersection with the centerline of the East Roadway of Public
Square;
Thence Northerly, along said East
Roadway to its intersection the centerline of with Superior Avenue
(132.00 feet wide);
Thence Easterly, along said Superior Avenue to its intersection with
the Northerly prolongation of the
Westerly line of land owned by
Leader-Cleveland Realty Associates
(P.P.N. 101-26-010);
Thence
Southerly,
along
said
Northerly prolongation and Westerly
line to the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence
Easterly,
along
the
Southerly line of said Leader-Cleveland Realty Associates and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 6th

857

23
Street (50.00 feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said East
6th Street to its intersection with
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(99.00 feet wide);
Thence
Easterly,
along
said
Euclid Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of East 8th
Street (16.00 feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said East
8th Street to its intersection with
the centerline of Prospect Avenue
(82.50 feet wide);
Thence
Westerly,
along
said
Prospect Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of Ontario Street;
Thence Southerly, along the said
centerline of Ontario Street to its
intersection with the centerline of
West Prospect Avenue and the place
of beginning.
Section 2. That the project agreement authorized herein shall include
without limitation the following
terms and conditions:
(a) an agreement by the City of
Cleveland to acquire that property
within the Treatment Area which
cannot be privately acquired in a
timely fashion through reasonable
negotiations;
(b) an agreement by the City of
Cleveland to convey, by official deed
or deeds, within the Treatment Area,
certain property more fully described
in Section 3 of this ordinance; provided that the deed or deeds shall
contain such restrictive covenants,
reversionary interests or similar provisions ad may, in the judgment of
the Director of Community Development, be required to insure the elimination within the Treatment Area of
conditions of blight and deterioration
and for the prevention of recurrence
of said conditions;
(c) a commitment by the Redeveloper to comply with all Federal
and state real property acquisition
requirements, including without limitation relocation assistance, to the
extent Federal or state funding is
usual for acquisition;
(d) a commitment by the Redeveloper to pay all costs of real property acquisition within the Treatment Area;
(e) a commitment by the Redeveloper to pay all costs of demolition required to develop the Treatment Area in accordance with the
Plan;
(f) an agreement by the Redeveloper to use best efforts to meet the
following Minority Business Enterprise and Female Business Enterprise construction contractor participation goals:
30% MBE; and
10% FBE; and
(g) such other requirements as the
Director of Community Development
may deem necessary to protect the
interests of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the following property may be
conveyed to the Redeveloper pursuant to the project agreement:
Euclid-Prospect II C.D. Plan
Treatment Area
Block 3 Site B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and beginning on the centerline of Euclid Avenue (99 feet wide)
at its intersection with the centerline of East 3rd Street (16.5 feet
wide); thence Easterly along the
centerline of said Euclid Avenue to
its intersection with the Northerly

24
prolongation of the Easterly line of
a parcel of land owned by Alvin
Krenzler (PPN 101-26-040); thence
Southerly along the Northerly prolongation and the Easterly line of
said Krenzler parcel to the South
Easterly
corner
thereof;
thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said Krenzler parcel and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the Easterly line of a parcel of
land owned by Miriam G. Kenney et
al (PPN 101-26-043); thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said
Kenney parcel and its Southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Prospect Avenue (82.5
feet wide); thence Westerly along
the centerline of said Prospect
Avenue to its intersection with the
centerline of East 3rd Street as
aforesaid; thence Northerly along
the centerline of said East 3rd
Street to its intersection with the

The City Record
centerline of Euclid Avenue and the
place of beginning.
Section 4. That this Council finds
the conveyance to the Redeveloper
of the property described herein, for
the purpose of redevelopment, constitute a public use of said property.
Section 5. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
property described herein at a price
not less than the fair market value
of the property taking into account
all restrictions, reversionary interests
and
similar
encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deed or deeds of conveyance.
Section 6. That the conveyance to
the Redeveloper shall be made by
official quitclaim deed to be prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland.

May 2, 2001
Section 7. That the Mayor, the
Director of Community Development, the Director of Economic
Development, the Director of Law,
and such appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute such certifications
and
documents,
and
take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate in connection
with
carrying
out the
terms of the project agreement
and the activities contemplated by
the Plan.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

Ord. No. 85-01.
By Councilman Westbrook (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Cudell Improvement,
Inc. to encroach into the right-of-way of Detroit Avenue between West 110th and West 117th Streets with
approximately nineteen (19) banners to be attached to CPP utility poles (by separate permission) for an on-going
banner program for the Detroit Business District.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Cudell
Improvement, Inc., 11650 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, its successors and assigns, for the construction,
use and maintenance of an on-going banner program which will include approximately nineteen (19) banners for
the Detroit Avenue Business District, to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate
permission) which will encroach into the public right-of-way of Detroit Avenue between West 110th Street and
West 117th Street at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

USE:

E-7-11
No Tag
E-7-12
E-7-15
E-7-17
E-7-19
E-7-21
E-7-23
E-7-24
E-8-2
E-8-4
E-8-5
E-8-9
E-8-7
E-8-10
E-8-11
E-8-13
E-8-14

Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner

DETROIT AVENUE:
11006 Detroit (N)
11014 Detroit (N)
11024 Detroit (N)
11210 Detroit (N)
11500 Detroit (N)
11500 Detroit (N)
11604 Detroit (N)
11650 Detroit (N)
NE Corner of Detroit & W. 117 St.
SE Corner of Detroit & W. 117 St.
11609 Detroit (S)
11603 Detroit (S)
11411 Detroit (S)
11411 Detroit (S)
11215 Detroit (S)
11201 Detroit (S)
11103 Detroit (S)
11101 Detroit (S)

Section 2. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That all other required permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said fence is
constructed.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any object to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 4. That the banners authorized by this ordinance shall be reviewed by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.

858

May 2, 2001
Ord. No. 444-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a First Amendment to Contract No. 56401 with
Kamms Corners Development Corporation to provide additional neighborhood revitalization activities.
Ord. No. 538-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for a grant from the Minority
Health Commission for the Diabetes
Action Plan Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for a grant in the approximate amount of $200,000, and any
other funds as they may become
available during the grant term,
from the Minority Health Commission, to conduct the Diabetes Action
Plan Program.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 538-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 540-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of animal trapping services,
for the Division of Environment,
Department of Public Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of animal trapping services in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Environment, Department of Public Health. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases

The City Record
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $60,000 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 25170)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 541-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency for financial assistance for
the operation of the Division of
Environment; and authorizing said
Director to enter into contracts for
the purchase of service and equipment necessary to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $2,554,960
from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Environment in accordance
with the purposes set forth in the
respective
application;
that
the
Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
apply for and receive the funds
under said grants; and that said
funds be appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grants.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 541-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide in
cash matching funds in the sum of
$491,250, from the Division of Environment’s General Fund budget in
order to receive the grant from the
U.S.
Environmental
Protection
Agency.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contracts for the purchase of equipment and services
necessary to implement the Program, and that said contracts are
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

859

25
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 613-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for the 2001 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging Grant.
Ord. No. 615-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio Department of Development to conduct the
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program and to enter into contract with various organizations,
individual landlords, tenants and
contractors for the purpose of providing weatherization assistance to
low-income City residents through
the
State
Home
Weatherization
Assistance Program.
RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 140-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution requiring the laying, re-laying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons,
curbs, gutters and/or castings on
certain streets and any associated
corner properties herein named in
the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department, now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is necessary to
lay, re-lay and repair sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or
castings, including adjustments of
utility boxes, where necessary, in
the City of Cleveland on the following streets, at the locations hereinafter named and between the
points mentioned, including both the
frontage and depth of corner lots
where said streets intersect, be
layed, re-layed and repaired, with
either stone flagging or concrete, to
the full width of the present sidewalks or curbing on the streets and
any associated corner properties
respectively:
West 93rd Street and West 95th
Street – Madison Avenue to Willard
Avenue
9801 Denison Avenue – Southwest
corner of Denison Avenue and West
98th Street
3243 West 98th Street – Southeast
corner of Denison Avenue and West
98th Street
Ashbury Avenue – East Boulevard
to Lakeview Road
Woodhaven – Ridge Road to West
63rd Street
West 59th Street – Memphis to
Ridgeview
Cleveland Road – North of St.
Clair Avenue

26
Catalpa Road – North of Euclid
Avenue
East 176th – Villaview to Nottingham Road
East 177th – Villaview to Nottingham Road
Creekview – Nottingham Road to
east end
Dillewood – East 176th Street to
east end
Nottingham Road – Villaview to
Lakeshore Boulevard
Shelton Road – Nottingham Road
to east end
Tiverton road – Nottingham Road
to east end
Sprengle Road – West 146th Street
to West 143rd Street (curb only)
Allien Avenue – East of W. 179th
Street to W. 176th Street.
Section 2. That, provided that
eighty percent (80%) of the property owners on each street subject to
this resolution agree to the work
described in Section 1 of this resolution, the Director of Finance shall
cause a written notice of the adoption of this resolution to be served
upon the owner, agent of the owner,
of each parcel of land abutting upon
the sidewalk, driveway apron, curb,
gutter, and/or casting to be layed or
re-layed or repaired. In the manner
provided by law for the service of
summons in civil actions and in
accordance with Section 164 of the
City Charter of the City of Cleveland. A copy of the notice, with the
time and manner of service endorsed
thereon, signed by the person serving it shall be returned to the office
of the Director of Finance and there
filed and preserved. The said notice
shall also provide that: if the sidewalk, driveway apron, curb, gutter,
and/or casting are not layed, relayed or repaired by the abutting
owner,
in
accordance
with
the
notice, within fifteen (15) days from
service of notice or completion of
the publication thereof, the City will
proceed, through the appropriate
department, to lay, re-lay or repair
such
sidewalk,
driveway
apron,
curb, gutter, and/or casting, including adjustments of utility boxes,
where necessary at the cost and
expense of the owner of the property in front of which the same is
layed, re-layed, repaired; and the
cost and expense thereof, unless
paid to the Director of Finance, will
be assessed against the abutting
property, and collected in the same
manner as other assessments, as
provided in Section 165 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Res. No. 317-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency resolution supporting the efforts of the Cleveland
Restoration Society, the Downtown
Cleveland Partnership, and Downtown Ohio, Inc. in preparing a proposal, for submission to members of
the Ohio State Legislature, to provide a historic property rehabilitation tax credit for the renovation
and maintenance of historic property.

The City Record
BOARD OF CONTROL
April 25, 2001
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 25, 2001,
at 11:00 a.m. with Mayor White presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Director
Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director Konicek, Acting Directors Van
Loh, Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Director Miller,
Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty, Huth, and Director Alexander
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 265-01.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of
Domestic
Linen
Supply
and
Laundry Company for an estimated
quantity of Towel and Linen Services (all items) various divisions of
City Government for the Department
of Finance, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
April 4, 2001, pursuant, to the
authority of Ordinance No. 285-01,
passed March 26, 2001, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Fifty Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty-Three and
92/100 Dollars ($57,253.92) (2%, Net
30 Days), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 33861
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy
and 00/100 Dollars ($2,870.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, a
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 266-01.
By Director Brooks.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Perkins Motor Services,
LTD for an estimated quantity of
shop equipment, items: 45, 52, 86 and
99, for various divisions of the
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on February 23, 2001,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 904-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on

860

May 2, 2001
August 7, 2000, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Four Thousand Seven
Hundred Forty One and 75/100 Dollars ($4,741.75) (0% Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance, is hereby requested to enter into a requirement
contract for such goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29596
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Four
Thousand Seven Hundred Forty One
and 75/100 Dollars ($4,741.75).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 267-01.
By Director Brooks.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Grainger Industrial Supply a Division of W.W. Grainger Inc.
for an estimated quantity of shop
equipment, items: 6, 11, 12, 14 (a,b),
17, 18, 19, 21, 23, 25, 33, 37, 38, 39, 4144, 46-50, 54, 55, 59, 65, 67-74, 76-81, 83,
89, 91-97, 101-104, 105 (a,b), 106-110,
for various divisions of the Department of Public Safety, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on February 23, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 904-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on August
7, 2000, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Forty Two Thousand One Hundred
Sixty and 96/100 Dollars ($42,160.96)
(0%
Net
30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is hereby requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29595
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Forty
Two Thousand One Hundred Sixty
and 96/100 Dollars ($42,160.96).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

May 2, 2001
Resolution No. 268-01.
By Director Brooks.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Nestar Sales LLC d.b.a.
Ace Tool Co. for an estimated quantity of shop equipment, items: 1, 2,
3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 13 (a,b), 15, 20, 22, 24,
27-32, 34, 35, 36, 40, 51, 53, 56, 57, 58,
60-64, 75, 82, 84 (a, b), 85, 87, 98, 100,
for various divisions of the Department of Public Safety, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on February 23, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 904-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on August
7, 2000, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Eight thousand seven hundred seventeen and 77/100 Dollars ($8,717.77)
(0%
Net
30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is hereby requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29594
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eight
Thousand Seven Hundred Seventeen
and 77/100 Dollars ($8,717.77).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately,
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 269-01.
By Director Brooks.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Custom Clutch Joint and
Hydraulics for an estimated quantity of shop equipment, items: 10, 26,
66, 88 and 90, for various divisions
of the Department of Public Safety,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on February 23,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 904-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on August 7, 2000, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Three Thousand
Two Hundred Forty Nine and 41/100
Dollars
($3,249.41)
(2%
Net
10
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29597
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Three
Thousand Two Hundred Forty Nine
and 41/100 Dollars ($3,249.41).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods

The City Record
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 270-01.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of APO Holdings Inc. for an estimated quantity of air compressors
for the various divisions of City government, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
April 6, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 16852000, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on October 30, 2000, and Ordinance No. 99-01, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on January 22, 2001, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Sixty-Three Thousand
Nine Hundred Fifty-Two and 00/100
Dollars ($63,952.00) (Net), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is hereby requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29609
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of SixtyThree
Thousand
Nine
Hundred
Fifty-Two
and
00/100
Dollars
($63,952.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether, more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 271-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of D & M Painting Corporation for the public improvement
of Chamberlin Water Tower demolition (Items 1-8) (including a 10%
contingency allowance) for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on March 28, 2001,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1980-96, passed June 2,
1997, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Two Hundred Twenty
Two Thousand One Hundred Four
and 00/100 Dollars ($225,104.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter into contract
for said improvement with said bidder.

861

27
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by D &
M Painting Corporation, for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
Cook Paving

WORK

MBE $40,000.00/18%

Steward Supply FBE $

5,000.00/2%

Iseler Demolition, Inc.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 272-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of EnviroCom Construction, Inc. for the public improvement of Crown Site improvements and landscaping — project
no. 104 (plus a 5% contingency
allowance)
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, received on March 28, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 965-93, passed July 14, 1993, for
a gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of One Million
Four
Hundred
Fifty-Seven
Thousand Three Hundred TwentyFive Dollars ($1,457,325.00), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter into contract
for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
EnviroCom Construction, Inc. for the
above-mentioned public improvement
is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Gateway Electric
MBE

$240,000.00/16%

Able Fence
FBE

$ 32,000.00/ 2%

Collinwood Concrete
FBE
$ 22,000.00/ 2%
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 273-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Cyngier Systems
Enterprises, Inc. for the public
improvement of providing electrical
service and duct system for FAA
supplied A/C unit, and installation
of maintenance bypass switch, items
3-5 and 7, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, received
on March 8, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1269-97,

28
passed May 18, 1998, upon a unit
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of Forty Six
Thousand Dollars ($46,000.00) is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 274-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Dolbey Systems, Inc.
for the public improvement of the
installation of new digital recorder
for Airport Operations and the PBX
phone room, “add alternate” and
items 3 through 5, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
received on March 8, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1269-97, passed May 18, 1998, upon a
unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Forty Four
Thousand
Four
Hundred
Ninety
Two Dollars ($44,492.00) is hereby
affirmed and approved as the as the
lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 275-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on March 22, 2001, for
the Rehabilitation of East 55th
Street, Phase III, for the Division of
Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1588-2000, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on November
27, 2000, be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 276-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Distribution Enterprises, Inc. dba
Graphic Marking Systems, for Gerber Edge Computer System, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering and
Parking, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on March
7, 2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1005-2000, passed July
17, 2000, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Thirty Six Thousand Six Hundred
Seventy Six, and no/100 Dollars

The City Record
($36,676.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 42934
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Six Thousand Six Hundred Seventy
Six and no/100 Dollars ($36,676.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 277-01.
By Director Guzman.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Base Bid, including Alternates
#2a, #3a and #4a of Clean Air Systems, Inc., for the Installation of
New Vehicle Exhaust Extraction
System, for the Department of Public Safety, received on December 14,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 927-2000, passed June
19, 2000, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Four Hundred Thirteen
Thousand Six Hundred Thirty Five
and no/100 Dollars ($413,635.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 278-01.
By Director Miller.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1060-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 23, 2000, authorized the sale of a portion of Permanent Parcel Number 733-10-014,
located on North Park Boulevard in
the City of Shaker Heights, Ohio, to
Barry J. Minoff; and
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 766-2000, adopted November 7, 2000, fixed the consideration
for said parcel at an amount determined to be not less than Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, an appraisal has determined the Fair Market Value to be
substantially lower than the consideration fixed in Board of Control
Resolution No. 766-2000; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 766-2000 adopted by
this Board of Control on November
7, 2000, authorizing the sale of a portion of Permanent Parcel Number
733-10-014, located on North Park

862

May 2, 2001
Boulevard in the City of Shaker
Heights, Ohio, to Barry J. Minoff, is
hereby amended by reducing the
consideration from $80,000 to $30,000,
which amount is hereby determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
Value.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 766-2000 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 279-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-28-070 located at Newark
Avenue in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, abutting/adjacent
landowner, has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop said parcel;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Greater
Cleveland Habitat for Humanity for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 007-28-070 located at
Newark Avenue, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

May 2, 2001
Resolution No. 280-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 121-19-092 located at 2315 East
103rd Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Bettie L. Ferrell, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Bettie L.
Ferrell for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 121-19-092
located at 2315 East 103rd Street, in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 281-01.
By Director Warren.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 445-01, passed
April 2, 2001, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by and at the direction of the
Board of Control, to sell certain City
owned property, no longer needed
for public use, described therein and
also known as being 2350 West 3rd
Street, (PPN # 08-30-014 and 08-30015), to Bredt-Zanick, LLC d.b.a.
Northern Ohio Lumber & Timber;
and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 44501 provided that the consideration to
be paid for the property shall be at
a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to Ordinance No. 44501, passed April 2, 2001 by the Council of the City of Cleveland, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases and
Supplies is hereby directed to sell
certain
City-owned
property,
no
longer
needed
for
public
use,
described therein to Bredt-Zanick,
LLC, d.b.a. Northern Ohio Lumber &
Timber. The consideration to be
paid for said land is One Dollar
($1.00), which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value when taking into account all
restrictions
and
encumbrances
placed by the City in the deed of
Conveyance. The quit claim deed
from the City to Bredt-Zanick, LLC
shall contain such terms and conditions as the Director of Economic
Development and the Director of
Law deem appropriate and necessary to protect the interest of the
City of Cleveland; including, without limitation, a restriction that the
property may only be used for a
lawful
purpose
of
Bredt-Zanick,
LLC d.b.a. Northern Ohio Lumber &
Timber.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, and
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies are hereby requested to
execute and deliver the official deed
of the City of Cleveland conveying
said property.
Yeas: Mayor White, Director Carter, Acting Director Clark, Director
Konicek, Acting Directors Van Loh,
Johnson, Director Whitlow, Acting
Director Smith, Director Miller, Acting Directors Resseger, McCafferty,
Huth, and Director Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

863

29
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 14, 2001
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 01-76: 10507 Superior
Avenue (Ward 8)
Mohammed Jacs, owner, appeals
to construct a gas station with a 40'
x 71' one-story convenient store
with office and a 23' x 50' car wash
and 10 fuel pumps all situated on an
approximate 240' x 141' irregular
shaped parcel located in a Local
Retail Business District on the
northeast corner of East 105th Street
and Superior Avenue at 10507 Superior Avenue; said construction being
contrary to the Local Retail Business District Regulations of Section
343.01 where a gas station is not permitted but is first permitted in a
General Retail Business District as
stated in Section 343.11(b)(2)(i)(5)
and contrary to the Landscaping
and Screening Requirements where
a 6' wide landscaping strip is
required along East 105th Street
between the parking lot and the
street as stated in Section 352.10 of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-77: 1837-1839 Grantham Road (Ward 10)
Mac and Saundra Saxon, owners,
appeals to change the use of an
existing 26' x 45' two dwelling unit
house into three dwelling units all
situated on a 40' x 120' parcel on
the north side of Grantham Road at
1837-1839
Grantham
Road;
said
change of use being contrary to the
Residential District Requirements,
of Section 337.03(a) where a three
dwelling unit house is not permitted
in a Two-Family District and contrary to the Area Requirements of
Section 355.04(a) where the minimum lot area required is 7,200 sq. ft.
and 3,580 sq. ft. is proposed, and contrary to the Off-Street Parking and
Loading Requirements of Section
349.03 where 3 parking spaces are
required and 2 are provided and contrary to the Yards and Courts Requirements of Section 357.09(b)(2)(c)
where an 8' interior side yard is
required and 2.5' and 11' are provided and contrary to the nonconforming use limitations that require
the Board of Zoning Appeals approval as stated in Section 359.01 (a)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-78: 779-783 East
185th Street (Ward 11)
Jane McGill and Matt Quinn, owners, appeals to install approximately 154 linear feet of 8' high wooden fencing to the rear of a 50' x
108' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the east side of
East 185th Street at 781 East 185th
Street; said installation being contrary to the Yards and Courts
Requirements of Section 357.13(c)
where an 8' high fence is proposed
in the rear yard and the maximum
height of fencing permitted in the
rear yard is 6'-6" and contrary to
the Residential District Requirements where an 8' high fence is proposed and the maximum height of
fencing permitted along the side
yard lines is 6' as stated in Section
337.23(a)(6) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-79: 5009 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 17)
Daniel Reed, owner, appeals to
change the use of an existing 33' x

The City Record

30
77'
irregular
shaped
one-story
machine shop building into a grocery store all situated on an approximate 78' x 135' irregular shaped
parcel located in a Semi- Industry
District on the south side of Detroit
Avenue at 5009 Detroit Avenue; said
change of use being contrary to the
Off-Street
Parking
and
Loading
Requirements of Section 349.04(f)
where 2 parking spaces are proposed and 8 are required and contrary
to
the
Landscaping
and
Screening Requirements where a 6'
wide landscaping strip is required
along Detroit Avenue between the
parking lot and the street as stated
in Section 352.10 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-84: 2168 West 6th
Street (Ward 13)
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, appeals to construct a 20' x 40' three-story, single
family dwelling house on a 25' x
100' vacant lot located in a B-MultiFamily District at 2168 West 6th
Street; said construction being contrary to the Lot Area Requirements
of Section 355.04 where a lot width
of 40' is required and 25' is provided and the minimum lot area
required is 4,800 sq. ft. and 2,500 sq.
ft. is proposed and contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements of
Section 357.04 where a 15' front yard
setback is required and 11' is proposed
and
Section
357.09(2)(b)
where a 10' aggregate interior side
yard is required and a 1.5' and 3.5'
aggregate interior side yard are proposed and a building in a Residence
District shall not be erected less
than 10' from a main building on an
adjoining lot as stated in Section
357.09(2)(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 30, 2001
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 30,
2001, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-64: 511 Spring Road
Pat Manco, owner, appealed to
construct a 6' x 20' addition to an
existing garage in a One-Family
District.
Calendar No. 01-65: 13420 Sherry
Avenue
Sharon Minter, owner, appealed to
enclose a 7'-1" x 28' front porch of
a single family dwelling in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 01-70: 6301 Dellbank
Drive
Robert W. Beech, owner, appealed
to install 73 linear feet of 5' high
ornamental fencing with a gate to
the rear of a corner parcel in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 01-75: 6005 Parkridge
Avenue
Jerrold L. Zarlenga, owner, appealed to construct a 28' x 38' twostory, frame single family house in
a One-Family District.

May 2, 2001

Calendar No. 01-51: Appeal of Christopher L. Smalls
Christopher L. Smalls appealed
under Section 76-6 and the Charter
of the City of Cleveland and Section
674.04 of the Codified Ordinances
from the denial of Handgun Registration and Handgun Owner’s Identification Card; decision of the Chief
of Cleveland Police Division reversed.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 01-66: 3305 West 44th
Street
Ronald Edvon, owner, appealed to
park a motor vehicle in the driveway setback area of a single
dwelling house in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 01-69: 576 East 152nd
Street
Thomas Gettings, owner, appealed
to expand a Rooming House by
adding a one-story, drive through
concession trailer to sell hot dogs in
a General Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 01-28: 4364 West 130th
Street postponed to May 29,
2001.
Calendar No. 01-63: 12702 Bellaire
Road postponed to May 21, 2001.
On Monday, April
Executive Session:

30,

2001,

in

The following appeal was heard
on Monday, April 23, 2001, and said
decision was approved and adopted
by the Board on April 30, 2001:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 01-60: 2362 Professor
Avenue
Marianne
Ludwig,
owner,
appealed to change the use of a onestory store and two-story, three
dwelling units building into a onestory frame ice cream parlor and
two-story dwelling units in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 01-59: 15803 Traflagar
Avenue
Ishmael
Pettigrew,
owner,
appealed to change the use of a onestory accessory building from a
garage to a furniture upholstery and
auto/marine interior workshop in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-08: 6200 South Marginal Road
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, owner, appealed to use an
acreage parcel for exterior storage of
construction materials and equipment
located in a Semi-industry District.
Calendar
No.
01-12:
2210
Payne
Avenue
Mathile Saad, owner, appealed to
change a one-story service station
building into an auto mechanic shop
and car wash in a Semi-Industry
District.
The following appeal was heard
on Monday, April 2, 2001, and said
decision was approved and adopted
by the Board on April 30, 2001:

864

The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 01-42: 2005 West Schaaf
Road
Brooklyn Heights United Church
of Christ, owners, and Brilliant Electric Sign Company, appealed to
install two 6'-6" tall x 6'-6" wide
free-standing, identification bulletin
board signs to the north and west
of a corner parcel in split zoning
between Local Retail Business and
Multi-Family Districts; upon the condition that the sign on West Schaaf
be lowered by 1'.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 25, 2001
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-4-01.
RE: Appeal of Cliflake Limited
Liability Company, Owner of the
Clifton Plaza Apartments located on
the premises known as 11406 Clifton
Boulevard from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE (There is no
elevator recall, activated by smoke
detectors in each lobby—Ohio Fire
Code 1301:7-703, FB-3130) of the
Chief of the Division of Fire dated
December 5, 2000, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-4-01 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
9, 2001.
*

*

*

Docket A-10-01.
RE: Appeal of Cliflake Limited
Liability Company, Owner of the
Clifton Plaza Apartments located on
the premises known as 11430 Clifton
Boulevard from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE (There is no
elevator recall, activated by smoke
detectors in each lobby—Ohio Fire
Code 1301:7-703, FB-3130) of the
Chief of the Division of Fire dated
December 5, 2000, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-10-01 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
9, 2001.
*

*

*

Docket A-14-01.
RE: Appeal of Brothers Printing
Co., of the Property located on the
premises known as 2000 Euclid
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE of the Chief of
the Division of Fire, dated January
4, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OEBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 2000 Euclid Avenue to

The City Record

May 2, 2001
the Division of Fire for supervision
and any required further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Sullivan-Acting
Chairman, Williams, Saunders. Nays:
None. Absent: Messrs. Denk, Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-38-01.
RE: Appeal of Fresques Inc.,
Owner of the Vacant Lot Property
located on the premises known as
18009
Puritas
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/LOT ACCESSABILITY & DRAINAGE of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated March
1, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to obtain permits to install a fence
for the property. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Sullivan-Acting
Chairman, Williams, Saunders. Nays:
None. Absent: Messrs. Denk, Bowes.
*

*

*

*

Docket A-55-01.
RE: Appeal of Fries & Schuele,
Ltd., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 1948 West
25th Street from a PARTIAL ADJUDICATION ORDER (Section 705.2—
Exterior walls along north and
south property lines require a 3 hour
fire rating for a (M) Mercantile use
group, and 1 hour fire rating for an
(R2) Residential use group.) of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated April
1, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for May 9, 2001.
*

*

A-7-01—Broadway Properties, Inc.
A-13-01—William J. Svoboda.
A-17-01—Michael T. Oliver.
A-18-01—Kinsman Road Realty.
A-29-01—Vanessa Whitmore.
A-48-01—Old Arcade, LLC.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Sullivan-Acting
Chairman, Williams, Saunders. Nays:
None. Absent: Messrs. Denk, Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders, for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC):

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of

Avenue, N.W. between West 89
Street and West 93 Street. (Map
Change No. 2024, Sheet Nos. 1 & 2)
Ord. No. 2313-2000.
By Councilman Melena.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on both sides of Lorain Avenue
between West 67 Street and West 52
Street. (Map Change No. 2025, Sheet
Nos. 1 & 2)
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
April 25, 2001 and May 2, 2001

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

April 11, 2001
Yeas:
Messrs.
Sullivan-Acting
Chairman, Williams, Saunders. Nays:
None. Absent: Messrs. Denk, Bowes.
JAMES F. SULLIVAN,
ACTING CHAIRMAN

*

Docket A-46-01.
RE: Appeal of Henry Kirksey,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 3560 East
93rd Street from an ORDER TO
VACATE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated March 29, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 3560 East 93rd Street to
the Division of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Sullivan-Acting
Chairman, Williams, Saunders. Nays:
None. Absent: Messrs. Denk, Bowes.
*

Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):

31

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 9, 2001
1:00 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the Council Committee on City Planning will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City
Hall,
Cleveland,
Ohio,
on
Wednesday, May 9, 2001, at 1:00
P.M., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1689-2000.
By Councilman Coats.
An
ordinance
to
establish
a
Planned Unit Development Overlay
District (PUD) and approve the corresponding Planned Unit Development project on properties located
on the west side of Quilliams Road
from the City boundary line north to
9 Mile Creek (Map Change No. 2019,
Sheet No. 7)

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2001

Ord. No. 1972-2000.
By Councilman Cintron.
An ordinance to change the zoning of lands on the northeasterly
corner of Columbus Road, N.W. and
Gould Ct., N.W. (vacated) (Map
Change No. 2022, Sheet No. 1)
Ord. No. 2218-2000.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area, and Height Districts of lands
located on the north side of Willard

865

POSTPONED
UNTIL
FURTHER
NOTICE. PLEASE CHECK THE
WEBSITE FOR UPDATES.
On-Site Soil Remediation During Airport Expansion, for the Department of Port Control.
BID PACKAGES CAN BE PURCHASED FROM THE DIVISION
OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES,
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, ROOM
128, CITY HALL, CLEVELAND,

The City Record

32
OHIO
44114,
FOR
THE
NONREFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY
ORDER
ONLY.
PROSPECTIVE
BIDDERS
WILL
RECEIVE
A
VOUCHER
TO
PRESENT
TO
THE
DESIGNATED
PRINTER
FOR PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. OUT OF AREA BIDDERS
SHOULD
PROVIDE
FEDERAL
EXPRESS,
UPS
OR
OTHER
ACCOUNT INFORMATION FOR
SHIPMENT.
PACKAGE
INCLUDES
PLANS,
TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS, GENERAL AND
CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS
AND ANY ADDENDA.
PROJECT DETAILS: THE CITY IS
SOLICITING BIDS FROM EXPERIENCED CONTRACTORS FOR
ON-SITE
SOIL
REMEDIATION
SERVICES DURING THE PERIOD
FROM MAY 2001 THROUGH JUNE
2004.
DURING
CONSTRUCTION
PLANNED AT CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
(CHIA),
THE
CITY
ANTICIPATES THAT SOIL, IMPACTED
BY DEICING OR AVIATION FUEL
COMPOUNDS
MAY
BE
ENCOUNTERED. IN THAT EVENT,
WE MAY BE REQUIRED, OR
OTHERWISE FIND IT PRUDENT,
TO TEST, SEGREGATE, STORE,
TREAT (AS NECESSARY, AND
DISPOSE OF IMPACTED SOIL.
THE CITY PLANS TO ISSUE A
ONE-YEAR CONTRACT, WHICH,
SUBJECT TO ACCEPTABLE PERFORMANCE AND SUBSEQUENT
APPROVAL, MAY BE EXTENDED.
QUESTIONS SHOULD BE FAXED
TO
DEBORAH
MIDGETT
AT
(216) 664-2177.
A PRE-BID MEETING IS SCHEDULED FOR THURSDAY, APRIL
26, 2001, 10:00 A.M. TO 11:00 A.M.
IN THE PROGRAM MANAGEMENT TEAM (PMT) CONFERENCE ROOM, 19501 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135
(SITUATED ON THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER
OF
SOUTH
CARGO
AND
FIVE
POINTS
ROADS).
April 18, 2001, April 25, 2001 and May 2,
2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 2001
Swimming Pool Chemicals, for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 82-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 26, 2001.
April 25, 2001 and May 2, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 2001
Valves and Appurtenances — Group
B — Valves, 3" to 16", for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 192.25 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976.

May 2, 2001

THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2001

FRIDAY, MAY 18, 2001

Millcreek Subdivision — Phase 4A,
for the Division of Engineering
and Construction, Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1117-2000 and 22722000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, October 16, 2000
and January 29, 2001, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.

Towing Services, for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 36601, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.

Aviation Radios, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 10,
2001, 1:00 P.M., IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF
PORT
CONTROL’S
BAGGAGE CLAIM CONFERENCE
ROOM A, TERMINAL BUILDING,
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
5300
RIVERSIDE
DRIVE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
Access Key Cards, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Airfield Painting, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 9,
2001, 1:00 P.M., IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF
PORT
CONTROL’S
BAGGAGE CLAIM CONFERENCE
ROOM A, TERMINAL BUILDING,
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
5300
RIVERSIDE
DRIVE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
April 25, 2001 and May 2, 2001
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2001
The Rehabilitation of East 55th Street
— Phase III From Superior Avenue
to South Marginal Road, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1588-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
Meter Reading Computer Readers,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1678-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 27, 2000.

Upgrade and Repair 800HP Synchronous Motor Unit, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2107-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 18, 2000.

Messenger Services, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance.

April 25, 2001 and May 2, 2001

May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001

866

Meyer Snow Plow and Spreader
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 182299, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 6,
1999.
May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 2001
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP)-Contract C-01, for the
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 46998, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15)
DAYS AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 10,
2001, 12:00 NOON LOCAL TIME, IN
THE 2ND FLOOR MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE,
PASSENGER
TERMINAL BUILDING, CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 5300 RIVERSIDE
DRIVE.
ATTENDANCE
IS
MANDATORY.
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP)-Contract D-01, for
the Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 46998, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 10,
2001, 12:00 NOON LOCAL TIME, IN
THE 2ND FLOOR MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, ADMINISTRATION OFFICE, PASSENGER TERMINAL BUILDING, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 5300 RIVERSIDE DRIVE.
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 2001
Service and Maintenance of MSAand
AIM Gas Detection Equipment and
Calibration Systems, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorizd by Ordinance No. 2105-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
February 12, 2001.

May 2, 2001
A

PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, MAY 21, 2001,
10:00 A.M., 4TH FLOOR, NORTH
CONFERENCE ROOM, CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.

May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 724-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 5718 Bridge Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit
No.
7467795,
Norma
Rodriguez, DBA Grocery Store, 5718
Bridge
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 7467795, Norma Rodriguez,
DBA Grocery Store, 5718 Bridge
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Res. No. 725-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 8615-17 Denison Front.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 97169300005, Judith H.
Withrow, DBA Rogers Grocery, 861517 Denison Front, Cleveland, Ohio
44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 97169300005, Judith H. Withrow, DBA Rogers Grocery, 8615-17
Denison
Front,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of

867

33
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Res. No. 726-01.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Rybka,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for public use
to expand Jasper Playfield, located
at 10109, 10105, 10101 and 10117 Briggs Road.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of expanding Jasper Playfield,
it is necessary to appropriate in fee
simple interest and this Council
hereby declares its intent to appropriate the fee simple interest in and
to the following described property:
Permanent Parcel No. 017-17-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 280, E.R. Cowin Land Co’s
Boulevard Hill Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
5, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 54 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
EXCEPTING THEREFROM that
part of the above described premises conveyed to Consolidated Rail
Corp., by deed dated 1/31/79, and
recorded in Volume 14899, Page 785
of Cuyahoga County Records.
Permanent Parcel No. 017-17-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 282, E.R. Cowin Land Co’s
Boulevard Hill Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
5, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 54 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
EXCEPTING THEREFROM that
part of the above described premises conveyed to Consolidated Rail

34
Corp., by deed dated 1/31/79, and
recorded in Volume 14899, Page 785
of Cuyahoga County Records.
Permanent Parcel No. 017-17-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 283, E.R. Cowin Land Co’s
Boulevard Hill Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
5, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 54 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
EXCEPTING THEREFROM that
part of the above described premises conveyed to Consolidated Rail
Corp., by deed dated 1/31/79, and
recorded in Volume 14899, Page 785
of Cuyahoga County Records.
Also
subject to zoning ordinances, if any.
Permanent Parcel No. 017-17-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 284, E.R. Cowin Land Co’s
Boulevard Hill Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Lot No. 5, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 54 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
EXCEPTING THEREFROM that
part of the above described premises conveyed to Consolidated Rail
Corp., by deed dated 1/31/79, and
recorded in Volume 14899, Page 785
of Cuyahoga County Records. Also
subject to zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause written notice of the adoption
of this resolution to be given to the
owners, persons in possession or
having an interest of record in the
above-mentioned premises, and such
notice shall be served according to
law by a person to be designated for
that purpose by the Director of
Finance which return shall be made
in the manner provided by law.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Res. No. 727-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 12107-09 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 74015602630, Rite Aid of
Ohio Inc., DBA Rite Aid Disc. Pharm
2630,
12107-09
St.
Clair
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 74015602630, Rite Aid of Ohio
Inc., DBA Rite Aid Disc. Pharm 2630,
12107-09 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44108 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Ord. No. 718-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Ministerial
Day
Care/Headstart
Association to hang four (4) banners at 2442 East 89th St. (west side
of street) on C.P.P. utility poles (by
separate permission) for the period
of April 17, 2001 to May 17, 2001,
inclusive, publicizing their organization’s child care and school programs.

868

May 2, 2001
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Ministerial Day Care/Headstart Association (Children’s First Learning &
Enrichment Center), 2442 East 89th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, to
install, maintain and remove four
(4) banners to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles, (by
separate
permission)
publicizing
their school’s special programs and
child care for the period of April 17,
2001 to May 17, 2001, inclusive, and
which banners are to be hung at
the following pole locations and on
the following pole numbers: 2442
East 89th Street (on the west side
of the street) on pole # 25-19-7A-2,
25-19-7A-3, 25-19-7A-4, 25-19-7A-5, and
which poles location and banners
shall be approved by the Director
of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a
banner
will be
hung
must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on
said banners, and said banners
shall be removed promptly upon the
expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Ord. No. 719-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Walk for Hunger on
May 12, 2001 sponsored by the
Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Walk for Hunger,
sponsored by the Hunger Network
of Greater Cleveland, on May 12,
2001, beginning at Burke Lakefront
Airport and progressing to E. 9th
Street, west on Erieside, continuing
North between stadium and Lake
Erie. South on West 3rd to St. Clair,
west on St. Clair to West 9th, south

May 2, 2001
on West 9th to Superior, east on
Superior to Ontario, south on Ontario
to Huron, east on Huron to Erie,
east on Erie to East 9th, north on
E. 9th to Huron, east on Huron to
Euclid, west on Euclid back to E.
9th, north on 9th to Superior, west
on Superior to Mall, cross through
mall to Lakeside, east on Lakeside
to E. 9th, north on E. 9th to North
Coast Harbor, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event.
Said permit
shall further provide that the City
of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Ord. No. 720-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Cintron and Melena.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the CVS/pharmacy Cleveland Marathon & 10K on April
29, 2001, sponsored by CVS Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the CVS/pharmacy,
sponsored by CVS Race Systems, on
April 29, 2001 beginning at Cleveland State University (1700 Euclid
Avenue), West on Euclid Avenue to
East Public Square Drive, North on
East Public Square Drive to Superior Avenue, East on Superior Avenue
to East 45th Street, North on East
45th Street to St. Clair Avenue, West
on St. Clair Avenue to Ontario
Street, South on Ontario Street to
Superior Avenue, West over Veterans Memorial Bridge to Detroit
Avenue, West on Detroit Avenue to
Lake Avenue, West on Lake Avenue
into Lakewood, Rocky River and
Bay Village. Return from Lakewood
- East on Lake Avenue to Detroit
Avenue, East on Detroit Avenue to
Veterans Memorial Bridge, East on
Veterans Memorial Bridge to Superior Avenue, East on Superior Avenue to East Public Square Drive,
South on East Public Square Drive
to Euclid Avenue, East on Euclid
Avenue to Finish line. Finish at
Cleveland State University, East
22nd Street & Euclid Avenue, provided that the applicant sponsor

The City Record
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police or safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. The Chief of Police shall
maintain at least one lane of traffic
open for a minimum of six hours
during the race. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Ord. No. 721-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the National Day of Prayer Task
Force to stretch banners at Euclid
Avenue at London Avenue for the
period from April 24, 2001 to May 4,
2001,
inclusive,
publicizing
the
National Day of Prayer.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the National Day
of Prayer Task Force to install,
maintain and remove banners at
Euclid Avenue at London Avenue for
the period from April 24, 2001 to May
4, 2001, inclusive. Said banner shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

869

35
Ord. No. 722-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Ministerial
Day
Care/Headstart
Association to hang four (4) banners at 10406 Kinsman Road (north
side of street) on C.P.P. utility poles
(by separate permission) for the
period of April 17, 2001 to May 17,
2001, inclusive, publicizing their
organization’s child care and school
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Ministerial Day Care/Headstart Association (Children’s First Learning &
Enrichment Center), 10406 Kinsman
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, to
install, maintain and remove four
(4) banners to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles, (by
separate
permission)
publicizing
their school’s special programs and
child care for the period of April 17,
2001 to May 17, 2001, inclusive, and
which banners are to be hung at
the following pole locations and on
the following pole numbers: 10406
Kinsman Road (on the north side
of the street) on pole # SE6-66, SE667, SE6-68, SE;6-69, and which poles
location
and
banners
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banners,
and said banners shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

Ord. No. 723-01.
By Councilmen Willis and Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
University Circle Incorporated to
stretch banners on Martin Luther
King, Jr., Drive (east of the Cleveland Museum of Natural History),
on Stokes Boulevard and on Cedar
Hill, for the period from May 14,
2001 to June 15, 2001, inclusive, publicizing Parade the Circle Celebration.

The City Record

36
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to University Circle
Incorporated to install, maintain
and remove banners on Martin
Luther King, Jr., Drive (east of the
Cleveland Museum of Natural History), on Stokes Boulevard and on
Cedar Hill, for the period from May
14, 2001 to June 15, 2001, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be

obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 23, 2001.
Effective April 27, 2001.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, April 30, 2001
Public Service Committee: 11:00
a.m.—Present: Cintron, Chairman;

May 2, 2001
Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones,
O’Malley,
Westbrook, Willis. Excused: Melena.
Finance Committee: 2:00 p.m.—
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.
Tuesday, May 1, 2001
Legislation Committee: 1:30 p.m.—
Present: Lewis, Chairman; Coats,
Gordon, Reed, White, Westbrook.
Excused: Jones, Vice Chairman.
Wednesday, May 2, 2001
Public Safety Committee: 10:00
a.m.—Present: Polensek, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Gordon, Jackson, Melena, Sweeney.
Excused: Cimperman.
Public Utilities Committee: 1:00
p.m.—Present: O’Malley, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan,
Melena,
Polensek,
Westbrook, Willis.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Western Reserve Area Agency 2001 - grant (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

Agreements
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area — acquisition, clearance
& redevelopment — MRN Ltd. (O 27-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-857

Airport Revenue Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue notes — issuance and sale — acquiring real property
— Airport System (O 492-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Animals
Trapping services — Division of Environment (O 540-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

Assessment Equalization Board
Appointment — Gomez, Magda; Mullally, Barbara; Reichtell, Bobbi -sidewalk assessments —
objection (R 765-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850

Banners
Detroit Business District — Cudell Improvement, Inc. (O 85-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-858
Lady of Mt. Carmel Church — 75th Anniversary (O 750-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Ministerial Day Care/Headstart Association — child care and school programs - 2442 E.
89th St. (O 718-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Ministerial Day Care/Headstart Association — child care and school programs
— 10406 Kinsman Rd. (O 722-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
National Day of Prayer Task Force — National Day of Prayer (O 721-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force — National Day of Prayer (O 749-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Parade the Circle Celebration — University Circle Incorporated (O 723-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869

870

May 2, 2001

The City Record

37

Block Grants
Demolition — various structures — City of Cleveland (O 741-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 738-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Arrowhead Avenue, 18712, (Ward 11) – Michael T. Oliver, owner - appeal adopted on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-17-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Clifton Boulevard, 11406, (Ward 17) – Cliflake Limited Liability Company, owner - appeal
postponed to 5/9/01 on 4/25/01 (Doc. A-4-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Clifton Boulevard, 11430, (Ward 17) – Cliflake Limited Liability Company, owner - appeal
postponed to 5/9/01 on 4/25/01 (Doc. A-10-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
East 93rd Street, 3560, (Ward 2) – Henry Kirksey, owner - appeal resolved on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-46-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Elsienna Avenue, 16705, (Ward 21) – William J. Svoboda, owner - appeal adopted on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-13-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Euclid Avenue, 2000, (Ward 13) – Brothers Printing Co., owner - appeal resolved on
4/25/01 (Doc. A-14-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Kinsman Avenue, 15301 , (Ward 3) – Vanessa Whitmore, owner - appeal adopted on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-29-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Kinsman Road, 8701-19, (Ward 4) – Kinsman Road Realty, owner - appeal adopted on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-18-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Lorain Avenue, 11550 , (Ward 19) – Broadway Properties Inc., owner - appeal adopted on
4/25/01 (Doc. A-7-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Puritas Avenue, 18009, (Ward 21) – Fresques Inc., owner - appeal resolved on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-38-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Superior Avenue, 410, (Ward 13) – Old Arcade, LLC, owner - appeal adopted on 4/25/01
(Doc. A-48-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
West 25th Street, 1948, (Ward 14) – Fries & Schuele, Ltd., owner - appeal rescheduled to
5/9/01 on 4/25/01 (Doc. A-55-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865

Board of Control - City of Shaker Heights
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - amend BOC Res. 766-00
(BOC Res. 278-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Digital recorder for Airport Operations and PBX phone room - contract pursuant to Ord.
1269-97 to Dolbey Systems, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 274-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Electrical service and duct system for FAA supplied A/C unit - contract pursuant to Ord.
1269-97 to Cyngier Systems Enterprises, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 273-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861

Board of Control - Community Development Department
East 103rd Street, 2315 (Ward 6) - PPN 121-19-092 - to Bettie L. Ferrell
(BOC Res. 280-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Newark Avenue (Ward 14) - PPN 007-28-070 - to Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity
(BOC Res. 279-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Crown Water Works Plant
Crown Water Works site improvements and landscaping - contract pursuant to Ord. 965-93
to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 272-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861

Board of Control - Engineering and Construction Division
East 55th Street, rehabilitation and reconstruction of from Superior Avenue to S.
Marginal Road - pursuant to Ord. 1588-2000 - all bids rejected - Division of
Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 275-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

871

The City Record

38

May 2, 2001

Board of Control - Finance Department
Air compressor - contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000 to APO Holdings Inc. - Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 270-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Sell PPN 008-30-014/015 - to Bredt-Zanick, LLC, d.b.a. Northern Ohio Lumber & Timber
pursuant to Ord. 445-01 (BOC Res. 281-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - amend BOC Res. 766-00
(BOC Res. 278-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Towel and linen service - contract pursuant to Ord. 285-01 to Domestic Linen Supply and
Laundry Company - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 265-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
East 103rd Street, 2315 (Ward 6) - PPN 121-19-092 - to Bettie L. Ferrell
(BOC Res. 280-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Newark Avenue (Ward 14) - PPN 007-28-070 - to Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity
(BOC Res. 279-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 6)
East 103rd Street, 2315 (Ward 6) - PPN 121-19-092 - to Bettie L. Ferrell
(BOC Res. 280-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
Newark Avenue (Ward 14) - PPN 007-28-070 - to Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity
(BOC Res. 279-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Land Sales
Sell PPN 008-30-014/015 - to Bredt-Zanick, LLC, d.b.a. Northern Ohio Lumber & Timber
pursuant to Ord. 445-01 (BOC Res. 281-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - amend BOC Res. 766-00
(BOC Res. 278-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Digital recorder for Airport Operations and PBX phone room - contract pursuant to Ord.
1269-97 to Dolbey Systems, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 274-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Electrical service and duct system for FAA supplied A/C unit - contract pursuant to Ord.
1269-97 to Cyngier Systems Enterprises, Inc. - Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 273-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861

Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition - contract pursuant to Ord. 1980-96 to D & M Painting
Corporation - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 271-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Crown Water Works site improvements and landscaping - contract pursuant to Ord. 965-93
to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 272-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Digital recorder for Airport Operations and PBX phone room - contract pursuant to Ord.
1269-97 to Dolbey Systems, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 274-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Electrical service and duct system for FAA supplied A/C unit - contract pursuant to Ord.
1269-97 to Cyngier Systems Enterprises, Inc. - Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 273-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Vehicle Exhaust Extraction system installation - contract pursuant to
Ord. 927-2000 to Clean Air Systems, Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 277-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Custom Clutch Joint and
Hydraulics- Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 269-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Grainger Industrial Supply,
a division of W.W. Grainger Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 267-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860

872

May 2, 2001

The City Record

39

Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Nestar Sales, LLC, d.b.a. Ace Tool
Co. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 268-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Perkins Motor Services, LTD
- Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 266-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Vehicle Exhaust Extraction system installation - contract pursuant to Ord. 927-2000 to
Clean Air Systems, Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 277-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Public Service Department
East 55th Street, rehabilitation and reconstruction of from Superior Avenue to S.
Marginal Road - pursuant to Ord. 1588-2000 - all bids rejected - Division of
Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 275-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Gerber Edge computer system - contract pursuant to Ord. 1005-2000 to Distribution
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Graphic Marking Systems - Division of Traffic Engineering
and Parking, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 276-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition - contract pursuant to Ord. 1980-96 to D & M Painting
Corporation - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 271-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Crown Water Works site improvements and landscaping - contract pursuant to Ord. 965-93
to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 272-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861

Board of Control - Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell PPN 008-30-014/015 - to Bredt-Zanick, LLC, d.b.a. Northern Ohio Lumber & Timber
pursuant to Ord. 445-01 (BOC Res. 281-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - amend BOC Res. 766-00
(BOC Res. 278-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Air compressor - contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000 to APO Holdings Inc. - Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 270-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Gerber Edge computer system - contract pursuant to Ord. 1005-2000 to Distribution
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Graphic Marking Systems - Division of Traffic Engineering
and Parking, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 276-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Custom Clutch Joint and
Hydraulics- Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 269-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Grainger Industrial Supply,
a division of W.W. Grainger Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 267-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Nestar Sales, LLC, d.b.a. Ace Tool
Co. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 268-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Shop equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 to Perkins Motor Services, LTD
- Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 266-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Towel and linen service - contract pursuant to Ord. 285-01 to Domestic Linen Supply and
Laundry Company - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 265-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860

Board of Control - Traffic Engineering and Parking Division
Gerber Edge computer system - contract pursuant to Ord. 1005-2000 to Distribution
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Graphic Marking Systems - Division of Traffic Engineering
and Parking, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 276-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862

Board of Control - Water Division
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition - contract pursuant to Ord. 1980-96 to D & M Painting
Corporation - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 271-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Crown Water Works site improvements and landscaping - contract pursuant to Ord. 965-93
to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 272-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861

873

The City Record

40

May 2, 2001

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Bellaire Road, 12702, (Ward 19) – Tom Padgett, owner - appeal postponed to 5/21/01
on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-63) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Dellbank Drive, 6301, (Ward 16) – Robert W. Beech, owner - appeal heard on 4/30/01
(Cal. 01-70). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
East 152nd Street, 576, (Ward 10) – Thomas Gettings, owner - appeal heard on 4/30/01
(Cal. 01-69). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Parkridge Avenue, 6005, (Ward 16) – Jerrold L. Zarlenga, owner - appeal heard on 4/30/01
(Cal. 01-75). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Payne Avenue, 2210, (Ward 13) – Mathile Saad, owner - appeal denied and adopted on
4/30/01 (Cal. 01-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Professor Avenue, 2362, (Ward 13) – Marianne Ludwig, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Sherry Avenue, 13420, (Ward 20) – Sharon Minter, owner - appeal heard on
4/30/01 (Cal. 01-65). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Smalls, Christopher L. – appeal heard on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
South Marginal Road, 6200, (Ward 13) – Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, owner,
c/o Martin Kukla, agent - appeal denied and adopted on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Spring Road, 511, (Ward 15) – Pat Manco, owner - appeal heard on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Trafalgar Avenue, 15803, (Ward 11) – Ishmael Pettigrew, owner - appeal denied and adopted
on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-59) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
West 130th Street, 4364, (Ward 20) – Albert Papes, owner - appeal postponed to 5/29/01
on 4/30/01 (Cal. 01-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
West 44th Street, 3305, (Ward 14) – Ronald Edvon, owner - appeal heard on 4/30/01
(Cal. 01-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
West Schaaf Road, 2005, (Ward 16) – Brooklyn Heights United Church of Christ, owner, and
Brilliant Electric Sign Company, agent - appeal granted and adopted on 4/30/01
(Cal. 01-42). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
Detroit Avenue, 5009, (Ward 17) – Daniel Reed, owner - appeal to be heard on 5/14/01
(Cal. 01-79). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
East 185th Street, 779-783, (Ward 11) – Jane McGill and Matt Quinn, owners - appeal to
be heard on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-78) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Grantham Road, 1837-1839, (Ward 10) – Mac and Saundra Saxon, owners - appeal to be heard
on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-77) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Superior Avenue, 10507, (Ward 8) – Mohammed Jacs, owner - appeal to be heard on 5/14/01
(Cal. 01-76). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
West 6th Street, 2168, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited Partnership, owner
- appeal to be heard on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-84) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864

Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue notes — issuance and sale — acquiring real property
— Airport System (O 492-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Building and Housing Division
Asbestos evaluation & Phase I environmental audits - environmental consultants
- underground storage tank (O 136-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

City of Cleveland Bids
Access key cards - Department of Port Control - Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport - bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Airfield painting - Department of Port Control - Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport - bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Aviation radios - Department of Port Control - Division of Engineering and Construction
- bid due May 17, 2001 (advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
East 55th Street rehabilitation (Phase III - Superior Avenue to South Marginal Road) Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering and Construction - per Ord.
1588-2000 - bid due May 17, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Messenger services - Department of Finance - bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866

874

May 2, 2001

The City Record

41

Meter reading computer readers - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Cleveland
Public Power - per Ord. 1678-2000 - bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Meyer snow plow and spreader parts and labor - Department of Public Service - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 1822-99 - bid due May 18, 2001
(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Millcreek Subdivision- Phase 4A - Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering
and Construction - per Ord. 1117-2000 and 2272-2000 - bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
MSA and AIM gas detection equipment and calibration systems, maintainance and service of
- Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per Ord. 2105-2000 - bid due
May 30, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
On-site soil remediation during airport expansion (POSTPONED) - Department of Port
Control - bid due May 17, 2001 (advertised 4/18/2001 and 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP) Group C-01 - Department of Port Control Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - per Ord. 469-98 - bid due May
23, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP) Group D-01 - Department of Port Control Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - per Ord. 469-98 - bid due May
23, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Swimming pool chemicals - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties - Division of
Recreation - per Ord. 82-01 - bid due May 9, 2001
(advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Towing services - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
- per Ord. 366-01 - bid due May 18, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Upgrade and repair 800hp synchronous motor unit - Department of Public Utilities Division of Water - per Ord. 2107-2000 - bid due May 16, 2001
(advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Valves and appurtenances- group B- valves, 3” to 16” - Department of Public Utilities Division of Water - per C.O. Sec. 192.25 - bid due May 16, 2001
(advertised 4/25/2001 and 5/2/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866

City Planning Commission
Euclid-Prospect Area Community Development Plan — additional amendments
(O 870-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-855
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R-demolish — permits (O 2015-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-856
Ord. No. 454-01 — repeal (O 751-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Subordinated airport revenue notes — issuance and sale — acquiring real property
— Airport System (O 492-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Codified Ordinances
Tattoo and body piercing — amend Sec. 343.11 & 347.12 — repeal Sec. 225.07
(O 737-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Taxicabs - rates of fare - amend Sec. 443.26 (O 2219-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Communications
Minority Electric Co., Inc. - Agreement No. 57472 - Port Control
(F 729-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Storm Water General Permit - Storm Water Pollution Plans - Port Control
(F 728-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Community Development
Asbestos evaluation & Phase I environmental audits - environmental consultants
- underground storage tank (O 136-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Demolition — structures — City of Cleveland (O 741-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
E. 40th St. and Community College Avenue, S.E. — Planned Unit Development Project
(O 748-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area — acquisition, clearance
& redevelopment — MRN Ltd. (O 27-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-857
Fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 740-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841

875

The City Record

42

May 2, 2001

Housing Rehabilitation Programs — Federal HOME Program funds
(O 739-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Neighborhood revitalization activities — Kamms Corners Dev. Corp. - contract
- amend (O 444-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-859
Parkworks — adult landscaping training program — Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Fund
(O 658-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 738-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant (O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Community Development Plan
Euclid-Prospect Area Community Development Plan — additional amendments
(O 870-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-855
Community Relations Board
Fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 740-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Condolences
Kocin, Edward L. (R 752-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Marcus, William (R 732-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Sharp, Ellen Louise (R 731-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Congratulations
McNeeley, Jack (R 734-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Terry, Larry D. (Dr.) (R 733-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Contracts
Rockport Construction & Materials — W. 32nd St. - rehabilitate (O 742-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Cudell Improvement
Detroit Business District — banners (O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-858
Easements
Tower City Riverview Company — West 3rd Street - driveway entrance and exit drive
(O 736-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Finance Department
Exterminating services — various divisions (O 620-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fasteners - purchase - various divisions of City government (O 619-01).
Hand and power tools (O 743-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paving brick — building materials (O 745-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wage and tax statements - year 2000 — convert (O 744-01). . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

855
855
843
843
843

Grants
Cleveland Community Re-entry Program 2001 - United States Department of Justice
(O 86-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Diabetes Action Plan Program — Minority Health Commission (O 538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-859
Environment Division operation — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — Ohio Department of Health — grant
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — Community Development (O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Western Reserve Area Agency — Department of Aging (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Health Department
Animal trapping services — Division of Environment (O 540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Cleveland Community Re-entry Program 2001 - grant - United States Department of Justice
(O 86-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Diabetes Action Plan Program — grant — Minority Health Commission (O 538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-859
Environment Division operation — grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

876

May 2, 2001

The City Record

43

Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — Ohio Department of Health — grant
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Tattooing and body piercing — amend Sec. 343.11 & 347.12 — repeal Sec. 225.07
(O 737-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839

House Bill
Concealed weapons — H.B. 225 — oppose (R 764-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Oil and gas exploration — Great Lakes - prohibit —H.R. 1032 (R 762-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Housing Rehabilitation Program
Federal HOME Program funds (O 739-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841

Land Reutilization Program
E. 61st St., 2377, 2369 — 6203 Quincy Ave — Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Inc (O 302-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Liquor Permits
Bridge Ave., 5718 — objection (R 724-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Bridge Ave., 5718 — objection (R 758-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Cedar Ave., 8716 - objection — withdraw (R 753-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Denison Front, 8615-17 — objection (R 725-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Denison Front, 8615-17 — objection (R 766-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
E. 105th St., 1204 — objection (R 759-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
E. 185th St., 910 — objection (R 761-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
E. 55th St., 1795 — objection (R 757-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Linwood, 7038 — objection (R 756-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Miles Ave., 9911 - objection — withdraw (R 767-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
St. Clair Ave., 12107-09 — objection (R 727-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
St. Clair Ave., 12107-09 — objection (R 768-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
W. 14th St., 3146 - objection — withdraw (R 754-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Wade Park Ave., 9200 Unit EA10 — objection (R 755-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Waterloo Rd., 15504 — objection (R 760-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Parkworks — adult landscaping training program — Ward 3 (O 658-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — Ohio Department of Health — grant
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Environment Division operation — grant (O 541-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

Parks, Maintenance Division
De-icer - purchase (O 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Broadway Ave. & Booth Ave. — sale — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. No. 847-2000
(O 747-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
De-icer - purchase (O 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Jasper Field — baseball diamonds — rehabilitate (O 746-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Luke Easter Park - Little League Diamond No. 6 - improve - Cleveland Baseball Federation
(O 440-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 738-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Ski lessons - Boston Mills Ski Resort - 2002 ski season (O 441-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Urban Forest property maintenance services - Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties (O.300-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Willie Vivian Edwards’ Estate - cash gift - college scholarship - Zelma Watson
George Recreation Center (O 439-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

877

The City Record

44

May 2, 2001

Permits
CVS/Pharmacy - Cleveland Marathon & 10K — CVS Race Systems
(O 720-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Walk for Hunger — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland (O 719-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868

Port Control Department
Kronos timekeeping system — install and maintain (O 1963-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R— demolishing, relocating and constructing — permits
(O 2015-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-856
Ord. No. 454-01 — repeal (O 751-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Subordinated airport revenue notes — issuance and sale — acquiring real property
— Airport System (O 492-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Public Hearing Notice
Columbus Rd. and Gould Ct. - zoning (Ward 14) (O 1972-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Lorain Ave. (W. 52nd and 67th Streets) - zoning (O 2313-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Quilliams Rd. - Planned Unit Development Overlay District (Ward 10)
(O 1689-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Willard Ave. - zoning (O 2218-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865

Repealed Ordinances & Resolutions (Not Codified)
Ord. No. 454-01 - wages — prevailing rates (O 751-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Concealed weapons — H.B. 225 — oppose (R 764-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Historic property rehabilitation — tax credit - Ohio State Legislation — proposal —
support (R 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Labor unions — support (R 763-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Oil and gas exploration — Great Lakes — H.R. 1032 - support (R 762-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

Service Department
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Tower City Riverview Company — West 3rd Street - driveway - entrance and exit
(O 736-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
W. 32nd St. — between Walbrook Ave. & Oak Park Ave. — rehabilitation
(O 742-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842

Sidewalks
Assessment Equalization Board - appoint; sidewalk assessment — objections
(R 765-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

Statement of Work Acceptance
Triad Engineering & Contracting Co. - Contract No. 56070 - Water Pollution Control
(F 730-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837

Street Vacation
First Unnamed Alley — (Woodland and Grandview Ave.) Ward 6 (O 735-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837

Tatoo and Body Piercing
Amend Secs. 343.11 and 343.12; repeal Sec. 225.07 (O 737-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839

Tax Credits
Historic property rehabilitation — tax credit — Ohio State Legislature - proposal —
support (R 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859

878

May 2, 2001

The City Record

45

Taxation Division
Wage and tax statements - Year 2000 — convert (O 744-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843

Wages
Prevailing rates - O. 454-01 - repeal (O 751-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845

Ward 02
Broadway Ave. & Booth Ave. - property — sale — amend the title and Sec. 2 of Ord. No.
847-2000 (O 747-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Marcus, William — Condolence (R 732-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Miles Ave., 9911 - Liquor Permit - objection — withdraw (R 767-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851

Ward 03
Luke Easter Park - Little League Diamond No. 6 - improve - Cleveland Baseball Federation
(O 440-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Ministerial Day Care/Headstart Association — banners — child care and school programs
— 10406 Kinsman Rd. (O 722-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Parkworks — adult landscaping training program — Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Fund
(O 658-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Willie Vivian Edwards’ Estate - cash gift - college scholarship - Zelma Watson
George Recreation Center (O 439-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Ward 05
E. 40th St. and Community College Avenue — Planned Unit Development project
(O 748-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
E. 61st St., 2377, 2369 — 6203 Quincy Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten,
Bell, Carr Development Inc (O 302-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854

Ward 06
Cedar Ave., 8716 - Liquor Permit - objection — withdraw (R 753-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
First Unnamed Alley - (Woodland and Grandview Ave.) — vacate
(O 735-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Ministerial Day Care/Headstart Association — banners — child care and school programs
- 2442 E. 89th St. (O 718-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 723-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Sharp, Ellen Louise — Condolence (R 731-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837

Ward 07
E. 55th St., 1795 - Liquor Permit — objection (R 757-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Linwood, 7038 - Liquor Permit — objection (R 756-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Wade Park Ave., 9200 Unit EA10 - Liquor Permit — objection
(R 755-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846

Ward 08
E. 105th St., 1204 - Liquor Permit — objection (R 759-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848

Ward 09
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 723-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
St. Clair Ave., 12107-09 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 727-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
St. Clair Ave., 12107-09 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 768-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851

Ward 10
National Day of Prayer — banners — National Day of Prayer Task Force
(O 721-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
National Day of Prayer — banner — ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force
(O 749-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845

879

The City Record

46

May 2, 2001

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 910 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 761-01) . . . .
Kocin, Edward L. — Condolence (R 752-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terry, Larry D. (Dr.) — Congratulation (R 733-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15504 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 760-01) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 849
. 837
. 837
. 848

Ward 13
CVS/Pharmacy — Cleveland Marathon & 10K — permit — CVS Race Systems
(O 720-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tower City Riverview Company — West 3rd Street — driveway entrance and exit
(O 736-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 14th St., 3146 — objection — withdraw (R 754-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk for Hunger — permit — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 719-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
drive
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868

Ward 16
W. 32nd St. — between Walbrook Ave. & Oak Park Ave. — rehabilitation
(O 742-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Ward 17
Bridge Ave., 5718 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 724-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Bridge Ave., 5718 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 758-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Lady of Mt. Carmel Church — 75th Anniversary — banners (O 750-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Ward 18
Denison Front, 8615-17 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 725-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Denison Front, 8615-17 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 766-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Detroit Business District — banners — Cudell Improvement, Inc.
(O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852-858
Jasper Field — baseball diamonds — rehabilitation (O 746-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Jasper Playfield — Briggs Road — expand (R 726-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
W. 117th St. — sidewalk assessments — objections — Assessment Equalization Board
— appointment (R 765-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Ward 20
McNeeley, Jack — Congratulations (R 734-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Weatherization Program
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant — Community Development
(O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
Western Reserve Area Agency 2001 — Department on Aging — grant
(O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853-859
Worker’s Compensation Neighborhood Fund
Jasper Field — baseball diamonds — rehabilitation (O 746-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843

880

