The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
May the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and One

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
29
35
37
38
38
40
40
41
42
42
42

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3232 East 119th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Susan E. Axelrod, Senior Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Nicholas P. Jackson, Executive Assistant for Services
Nina Turner, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Marvin Hayes, Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Pinky Carr, Chief Counsel,
Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Kelly Clark, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert C. Brown, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Daniel Jarvis, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Reuben Sheperd, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Donald Culp, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán , Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Alfred T. Miller, Jr.,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Mic hael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman ,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVI CE COMMIS SION – Room 1 19, An ne Blo om be rg, Pre si de nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox,
P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Kelly Clark, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Kelly Clark; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush, James Gibans,
Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J.
Melena, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Ann Marie Feighan
12B
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 2001

Vol. 88

No. 4562

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 14, 2001
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Jones, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jackson,
Melena,
Sweeney.

RUBY F. MOSS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Melena, Polensek, Westbrook,
Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Reed, White.
The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
O’Malley, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Patmon, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Jackson,
Reed, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed, Westbrook, White.

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 14, 2001.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Michael D. Polensek, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan,
Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Patmon,
Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White and Willis.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Carter, Clark, Konicek,
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren, Alexander, Dove, Morrison,
McCall and Ambroz and Acting
Director Szabo.
Absent: Directors Sheperd, Ricchiuto and Whitlow.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2976-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by the Rev.
Bryan Gilloly, Deacon of the West
Side
Episcopal
Shared
Ministry,
which has four churches — St.
Johns, located in Ward 13; St. Lukes,
located in Ward 17; St. Philips,
located in Ward 15; and St. Marks,
located in Ward 21. Pledge of Allegiance.

MOTION
By Council Member Cintron moved
that the Journal be corrected to
reflect the inclusion of an amendment made to Ord. No. 366-01, that
was not printed in the City Record
dated April 9, 2001. The final publication of the Ord. 366-01 including
amendments in their entirety is
shown correctly in the April 18, 2001
issue of the City Record. Seconded
by Council Member Patmon.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 769-01.
From Michael Polensek, President,
Cleveland City Council re: appointment of Cindy Barber to the Fair
Housing Board. Received.
File No. 770-01.
From the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties re: Ameritemps,
Inc. — temporary and seasonal personnel — fair employment wage —
compliance. Received.
File No. 771-01.
From the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties re: Ran Associates, Inc. — temporary and seasonal personnel — fair employment
wage — compliance. Received.
File No. 772-01.
From
the
Richard
E.
Jacobs
Group, Inc. re: Financial Agreements — Annual report. Received.
File No. 773-01.
From
the
Richard
E.
Jacobs
Group, Inc. re: Financial Agreements — Annual report. Received.
File No. 774-01.
From the Department of Community Development re: Community
Development Block Grant Program
— quarterly report. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 775-01.
From the Director of Public Utilities re: Contract No. 55777 — heating boilers — Nottingham Waterworks Plant. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

MOTION

File No. 776-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 9695673 - Winking Lizard of
Gateway, Inc., d.b.a. Winking Lizard
Taverns, 820 Prospect Avenue, first
floor and basement. (Ward 13).
Received.

On the motion of Council Member
Cintron, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Patmon.

File No. 777-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 4159299 - I. S. & J., Inc., d.b.a.
Jayson’s Deli, 9901 Loretta Avenue.
(Ward 18). Received.

921

The City Record

4
File No. 778-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 2759430 - 568 JH, Inc., d.b.a.
Back Door Beverage, 568 East 185th
Street. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 779-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 1360574 - Celine Mini Market, Inc., d.b.a. Celine Mini Market,
11334 Miles Road. (Ward 2). Received.
File No. 780-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 5243993 - L. L. Davis
Limited, d.b.a. Dibella’s Ristorante,
12718 Larchmere Avenue. (Ward 6).
Received.
File No. 781-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 3575435 - Hanna Deli, Inc.,
1422 East 14th Street. (Ward 13).
Received.
File No. 782-01.
Re: Stock Transfer Application 4255501 - Jay Bridge Food’s Inc.,
d.b.a. Gateway Food Market, 1822-26
West 25th Street. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 783-01.
Re: Stock Transfer Application 1671476 - Con, Inc. 347, d.b.a. Convenient
Food
Mart,
9815
Madison
Avenue. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 784-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 4483278 - Karams Corp.,
d.b.a. Johny’s Food Market, 2101
Denison Avenue, first floor and
basement. (Ward 15). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.
mire.

No.
No.
No.
No.

785-01—Godfrea Davis.
786-01—Carrie Gates.
787-01—Cora Lewis.
788-01—James Lee Studa-

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 789-01—The Eliza Bryant
Center.
Res. No. 790-01—Luther Blackwell
Ministries/Mega Church.
Res. No. 791-01—Tony Moze.
Res.
No.
792-01—Milan
Kucan,
President, Republic of Slovenia.
Res. No. 793-01—Rasheen Sinclair.
Res. No. 794-01—Barbara Rogers.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 795-01—National Municipal Clerks Association Week.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 796-01—League of Women
Voters of Ohio.

May 16, 2001

COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res.
hout.

No.

797-01—Douglas

L.

Ko-

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1844-A-99 (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 1844-99).
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Chapter 375 relating to landlords and tenants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Chapter 375, to read as follows:
Chapter 375
LANDLORDS AND TENANTS
Section 375.01 Definitions
Section 375.02 Terms of Rental
Agreements
Section 375.03 Terms Barred from
Rental Agreements
Section 375.04 Rent Receipt Required
Section 375.05 Payment of Utilities
Section 375.06 Unlawful Entry By
Landlord
Section 375.07 Landlord Denied
Certain Remedies
Section 375.08 Retaliation of Landlord Prohibited; Relief
Section 375.09 Section 375.09 Reasonable Security Against Criminal
Activity
Section 375.10 Abandonment of
Dwelling Unit by Tenant; Landlord
Remedies
Section 375.11 Severability
Section 375.01 Definitions
(a)
“Dwelling
unit”
means
a
structure or the part of a structure
that is used as a home, residence, or
sleeping place by one person who
maintains a household or by two or
more persons who maintain a common household.
(b) “Landlord” means the owner,
lessor, or sublessor of residential
premises, his agent, or any person
authorized by him to manage the
premises or to receive rent from a
tenant under a rental agreement.
(c) “Rental agreement” means any
agreement or lease, written or oral,
which establishes or modifies the
terms, conditions, rules, or any other
provisions concerning the use and
occupancy of residential premises
by one of the parties.
(d) “Residential premises” means
a dwelling unit for residential use
and occupancy and the structure of
which it is a part, the facilities and
appurtenances
in
it,
and
the
grounds, areas, and facilities for the
use of tenants generally or the use
of which is promised the tenant.
“Residential
premises”
do
not
include
any
structures
excluded
from the definition found in Section
5321.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
(e) “Tenant” means a person entitled under a rental agreement to
the use and occupancy of residen-

922

tial premises
others.

to

the

exclusion

of

Section 375.02 Terms of Rental
Agreements
(a) A landlord and tenant may
include in a rental agreement any
terms and conditions, including the
term relating to rent, the duration
of an agreement, and any other provisions governing the rights and
obligations of the parties that are
not inconsistent with or prohibited
by this Chapter, Chapter 5321 of the
Ohio Revised Code, or any other rule
of law.
(b) In the event that a landlord
and tenant have a rental agreement
for a duration of six (6) months or
more, and the rental agreement
includes a provision for automatic
renewal, the automatic renewal provision must be set forth in clear,
unambiguous language and must
be printed on the rental agreement
in bold type that is at least twice
the size of any other print on the
page.
(c) If a rental agreement includes
a provision that authorizes the landlord to assess the tenant a fee for
late payment of the monthly rent,
the total amount of that late payment fee for any month may not
exceed the larger of: (i) twenty-five
dollars ($25.00); or (ii) five percent
(5%) of the monthly contract rent.
In addition, the total amount of that
late payment fee for any month may
not
exceed
twenty-five
percent
(25%) of the portion of the monthly contract rent that the tenant is
obligated to pay under the rental
agreement.
Section 375.03 Terms Barred from
Rental Agreements
(a) No provision of this Chapter
or Chapter 5321 of the Ohio Revised
Code may be modified or waived by
any
oral
or
written
agreement
except as provided in Division (f) of
this Section.
(b) No warrant of attorney to confess judgment shall be recognized in
any rental agreement or in any
other agreement between a landlord
and tenant for the recovery of rent
or
damages
to
the
residential
premises.
(c) No agreement to pay the landlord’s or tenant’s attorneys’ fees
shall be recognized in any rental
agreement for residential premises
or in any other agreement between
the landlord and tenant.
(d) No agreement by a tenant to
the exculpation or limitation of any
liability of the landlord arising
under law or to indemnify the landlord for that liability or its related
costs shall be recognized in any
rental agreement or in any other
agreement between a landlord and
tenant.
(e) A rental agreement, or the
assignment, conveyance, trust deed,
or security instrument of the landlord’s interest in the rental agreement may not permit the receipt of
rent free of the obligation to comply with Section 5321.04 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
(f) The landlord may agree to
assume responsibility for fulfilling
any duty or obligation imposed on a
tenant by Section 5321.05 of the Ohio
Revised Code, other than the obligation specified in Division (A)(9) of
that Section.
(g) A landlord who knowingly
includes a provision in a lease that
is prohibited by this Section shall be
liable for damages in favor of the

May 16, 2001
tenant in an amount of not less than
Fifty Dollars ($50.00) and not more
than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00)
for each violation, together with reasonable attorneys’ fees.
Section 375.04 Rent Receipt Required
Upon a tenant’s written request,
the landlord shall provide the tenant with a signed receipt for the
security deposit and all rental payments except for payments made by
personal check of the tenant, at the
time the security deposit or rental
payments are made. The tenant may
make this request for a receipt, relative to the security deposit and/or
all rental payments, in one written
request. A tenant may bring an
action for mandatory or injunctive
relief to secure compliance with this
Section.
Section 375.05 Payment of Utilities
(a) A landlord who is a party to
a rental agreement shall pay for the
electric, gas, and water services for
the tenant’s dwelling unit unless:
(1) The applicable utility service
is provided to the tenant’s dwelling
unit through an individual meter or
submeter that measures usage only
in the tenant’s dwelling unit; and
(2) The rental agreement provides
that, with respect to the applicable
utility service, the tenant shall pay
only for the cost of the utility service that is provided through the
individual meter or submeter during
the tenancy; and
(3) The rental agreement provides
that the tenant shall have reasonable access at all times to the individual meter or submeter, for the
purpose of reading the meter or submeter; and the landlord grants the
tenant such access to the individual
meter or submeter; and
(4) The provisions in the rental
agreement that implement this Section are stated in clear and unambiguous language.
Section 375.06 Unlawful Entry Prohibited
(a) Except in the case of an emergency or if it is impracticable to do
so, a landlord shall give a tenant
reasonable notice of his intent to
enter the leased premises and enter
only at reasonable times. Twentyfour (24) hours is presumed to be
reasonable notice in the absence of
evidence to the contrary.
(b) If a landlord makes an entry
in violation of Section (a) hereof,
makes a lawful entry in an unreasonable manner, or makes repeated
demands for entry otherwise lawful
that have the effect of harassing the
tenant, the tenant may:
(1) At the tenant’s option, either
recover actual damages resulting
from the entry or demands, or recover damages of an amount not less
than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) nor more
than
Five
Hundred
Dollars
($500.00);
(2) Obtain injunctive relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct;
(3) Obtain a judgment for reasonable attorneys’ fees;
(4) Terminate the rental agreement.
Section 375.07 Landlord Denied
Certain Remedies
(a) No landlord of residential
premises shall initiate any act,
including the termination of utilities
or services, exclusion from the
premises, or threat of any unlawful
act against a tenant or a tenant

The City Record
whose right to possession has been
terminated, for the purpose of recovering
possession
of
residential
premises, other than as provided in
Chapters 1923, 5303, and 5321 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
(b) No landlord of residential
premises shall seize the furnishings
or possessions of a tenant, or of a
tenant whose right to possession
has terminated, for the purpose of
recovering
rent
payments,
other
than in accordance with an order by
a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c) A landlord who violates this
Section shall be liable in a civil
action for: at the tenant’s option,
either all damages caused to the
tenant or to the tenant whose right
to possession has been terminated,
or damages of an amount not less
than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) nor more
than
Five
Hundred
Dollars
($500.00); and the tenant’s reasonable attorneys’ fees.
Section 375.08 Retaliation of Landlord Prohibited; Relief
(a) Subject to Division (d) of this
Section, a landlord may not retaliate
against a tenant by increasing the
tenant’s rent, decreasing services
that are due to the tenant, bringing
or threatening to bring an action for
possession of the tenant’s premises,
terminating or threatening to terminate the tenant’s rental agreement,
or refusing to renew the tenant’s
rental agreement or to continue the
tenant’s tenancy because:
(1) The tenant has complained to
an appropriate governmental agency
of a violation of a building, housing,
health, or safety code that is applicable to the premises, and the violation materially affects health and
safety;
(2) The tenant has complained to
the landlord of any violation of Section 5321.04 of the Ohio Revised
Code;
(3) The tenant has joined with
other tenants for the purpose of
negotiating or dealing collectively
with the landlord on any of the
terms and conditions of a rental
agreement.
(b) If a landlord acts in violation
of Division (a) of this Section, the
tenant may:
(1) Use the retaliatory action of
the landlord as a defense to an
action by the landlord to recover
possession of the premises;
(2) Recover possession of the
premises; or
(3) Terminate the rental agreement.
In addition, the tenant may recover from the landlord, at the tenant’s
option, either any actual damages,
together with reasonable attorneys’
fees, or damages of not less than
Fifty Dollars ($50.00) nor more than
Five
Hundred
Dollars
($500.00),
together with reasonable attorneys’
fees.
(c) Nothing in Division (a) of this
Section shall prohibit a landlord
from increasing the rent to reflect
the cost of improvements installed
by the landlord in or about the
premises or to reflect an increase in
other costs of operation of the
premises.
(d) Notwithstanding Divisions (a)
and (b) of this Section, a landlord
may bring an action under Chapter
1923 of the Ohio Revised Code for
possession of the premises if:
(1) The tenant is in default in the
payment of rent;
(2) The violation of the applicable building, housing, health, or

923

5
safety code that the tenant complained of was primarily caused by
any act or lack of reasonable care
by the tenant, or by any other person in the tenant’s household, or by
anyone on the premises with the
consent of the tenant;
(3) Compliance with the applicable building, housing, health, or
safety code would require alteration,
remodeling, or demolition of the
premises which would effectively
deprive the tenant of the use of the
dwelling unit.
(e) The maintenance of an action
by the landlord under Division (d)
of this Section does not prevent the
tenant from recovering damages for
any violation by the landlord of the
rental
agreement
or
of
Section
5321.04 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 375.09 Reasonable Security
Against Criminal Activity
(a) This Section applies only to
residential premises that are located in a multifamily structure or a
multifamily development.
(b) Definitions.
(1) “Multifamily structure” means
a structure that contains thirty or
more dwelling units.
(2)
“Multifamily
development”
means a tract of land or contiguous
tracts of land on which there are
thirty or more dwelling units of the
same landlord.
(3)
“Multifamily
structure
or
development” means a multifamily
structure or a multifamily development.
(4) “Safety Director” means the
Safety Director of the City of Cleveland or his/her designee.
(5) “Security audit” means the procedure in which:
(i) The Safety Director shall conduct a full and thorough analysis of
the common areas of a multifamily
structure or development to determine whether the common areas
have reasonable security measures
against criminal activity;
(ii) In conducting this analysis,
among other things, the Safety
Director shall conduct a voluntary
survey of the tenants of the multifamily structure or development
without recording the names of the
tenants;
(iii) In conducting this analysis,
the Safety Director shall consider,
among other things, the statement
of reasons (if any) in the petition
that requested the security audit,
the responses (if any) to the Safety
Director’s survey of the tenants, the
number and type of service calls
that the City of Cleveland Police
Department has received concerning
the multifamily structure or development, and the Safety Director’s
inspection of the common areas of
the multifamily structure or development;
(iv) Based on this analysis, the
Safety Director shall determine and
specify the additional security measures, if any, that the landlord shall
be obligated to implement in the
common areas of the multifamily
structure or development to provide
the common areas with reasonable
security measures against criminal
activity;
(v) For each of these specified
additional security measures, the
Safety Director shall determine and
specify a reasonable time period
within which the landlord shall
implement it;
(vi) These specified additional
security
measures
may
include,
among other things, cameras, light-

6
ing, locks for windows or doors, renovation
of
windows,
doors,
or
entrance areas, crime reporting procedures, and/or onsite security personnel for specified hours; and
(vii) The Safety Director shall
prepare
a
written
report
that
includes all of the Safety Director’s
findings, determinations, and specifications in the security audit.
(c) The tenants of a multifamily
structure or development may file a
petition with the Safety Director
that requests a security audit of the
multifamily structure or development in which they reside.
(1) The Safety Director shall prepare, and distribute to tenants at no
charge, a form that tenants may
use, but are not required to use, for
the petition.
(2) In the petition, the tenants
shall sign their names, state their
addresses, and state their request
for a security audit of the multifamily structure or development in
which they reside.
(3) In the petition, the tenants
shall identify the name and address
of at least one tenant, and may identify the name and address of up to
five tenants, who shall receive service of any documents that, under
this Section, the Safety Director is
required to serve on the tenants.
(4) In the petition, the tenants
may state with specificity, but are
not required to state with specificity, their reasons for requesting a
security audit.
(5) The petition shall be signed
only by tenants of the multifamily
structure or development and only
by one tenant per dwelling unit of
the multifamily structure or development. The number of such tenants
who sign the petition must equal at
least ten percent of the total number of dwelling units in the multifamily structure or development.
(6) The tenants shall file the petition with the office of the Safety
Director. At the time of the filing,
the office of the Safety Director
shall time and date stamp the original petition and the tenant’s copy
of the petition.
(7) Within three days after the filing of the petition, the tenants shall
serve the landlord of the multifamily structure or development with a
copy of the petition by delivering or
mailing it to the address of the landlord or to the place where their rent
is normally paid.
(d) Within ten days after receiving service of the petition, the landlord shall provide the office of the
Safety Director
with
a written
statement of the landlord’s name
and address, for the purpose of
receiving documents that, under
this Section, the Safety Director is
required to serve on the landlord.
If the landlord fails to provide the
office of the Safety Director with
that information in a timely manner, the Safety Director shall make
reasonable efforts to identify an
appropriate name and address for
the landlord and, based on those
efforts, shall determine the name
and address to be used for such service.
(e) Within thirty days after the
filing of the petition with the office
of the Safety Director, the Safety
Director
shall
make
an
initial
assessment,
in
writing,
as
to
whether a security audit of the multifamily structure or development is
appropriate and shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a copy
of the initial assessment.

The City Record
(1) In the initial assessment, the
Safety Director shall find that a
security audit of the multifamily
structure or development is appropriate if: (i) the requirements in
this Section for filing a petition are
met; and (ii) there is any reasonable basis for concluding that, if a
security audit is conducted, there is
a reasonable possibility that the
Safety Director will specify additional security measures that the
landlord will be obligated to implement in the common areas of the
multifamily structure or development.
(2) In determining whether any
such reasonable basis exists, the
Safety
Director
shall
consider,
among other things, the statement
of reasons (if any) in the petition
that requested the security audit,
the number and type of service calls
that the City of Cleveland Police
Department has received concerning
the multifamily structure or development, and the Safety Director’s
preliminary inspection of the common areas of the multifamily structure or development.
(3) The Safety Director shall
serve the tenants and the landlord
with a copy of the initial assessment by delivering or mailing it to
their respective addresses.
(f) If the Safety Director determines in an initial assessment that
a security audit of the multifamily
structure or development is not
appropriate,
the
Safety
Director
shall not conduct a security audit of
the multifamily structure or development.
(g) If the Safety Director determines in an initial assessment that
a security audit of the multifamily
structure or development is appropriate, within thirty days after the
Safety Director serves the tenants
and the landlord with the initial
assessment,
the
Safety
Director
shall complete the security audit
and shall serve the tenants and the
landlord with a copy of the written
report of the security audit. The
Safety Director shall serve the tenants and the landlord with a copy
of the written report of the security
audit by delivering or mailing it to
their respective addresses.
(h) If the Safety Director determines in a security audit that the
landlord is obligated to implement
additional security measures in the
common areas of the multifamily
structure or development, the landlord is obligated to implement those
security measures within the reasonable time period(s) specified in
the security audit.
(i)
The
landlord’s
obligation
under this Section and the security
audit to implement the security measures specified in the security audit,
within the reasonable time period(s)
specified in the security audit, is an
implied term of any rental agreement for any dwelling unit in the
multifamily structure or development. If the landlord breaches that
implied term of a rental agreement,
it constitutes a breach of an obligation imposed upon the landlord by
the rental agreement, for the purposes of Section 5321.07(A) of the
Ohio Revised Code.
(j) The tenants of a multifamily
structure or development may not
file a petition pursuant to this Section if, relative to the same multifamily structure or development, a
petition has been filed and served
properly pursuant to this Section
within the preceding 12 months.

924

May 16, 2001
(k) If the landlord requests the
Safety Director to inspect the multifamily structure or development to
determine whether the landlord has
implemented the landlord’s obligations under the security audit, within thirty days of the request, the
Safety Director shall make that
determination, in writing, and shall
serve the tenants and the landlord
with a copy of that determination.
The Safety Director shall serve the
tenants and the landlord with a
copy of that determination by delivering or mailing it to their respective addresses.
Section 375.10 Abandonment of
Dwelling Unit by Tenant; Landlord
Remedies
(a) For the purposes of this Section, “abandonment” means the tenant has vacated the dwelling unit
without notice to the landlord and
does not intend to return, which
intention may be evidenced by the
combination of the tenant’s removal
of substantially all of the tenant’s
possessions and personal effects
from the dwelling unit plus one of
the following: (i) nonpayment of
rent for at least two months, (ii) termination of the utilities to the
dwelling unit at the request of the
tenant, or (iii) an express statement
by the tenant to the landlord that
the tenant does not intend to occupy the dwelling unit after a specified date.
(b) If the tenant abandons the
dwelling unit, the landlord may
send notice to the tenant at the tenant’s last-known address both by
regular mail, postage prepaid, and
by certified mail, return receipt
requested, stating that (i) the landlord has reason to believe that the
tenant has abandoned the dwelling
unit, (ii) the landlord intends to
reenter and take possession of the
dwelling unit unless the tenant contacts the landlord within ten days
of receipt of the notice, (iii) if the
tenant does not timely contact the
landlord, the landlord intends to
remove any possessions and personal effects remaining in the dwelling
unit and to re-rent the premises, and
(iv) if the tenant does not reclaim
such
possessions
and
personal
effects within thirty days after the
notice, the landlord will dispose of
them as permitted by this Section.
The notice shall be in clear and simple language and shall include a
telephone number and a mailing
address at which the landlord can
be
contacted.
If
the
notice
is
returned as undeliverable, or the
tenant fails to contact the landlord
within ten days of the receipt of the
notice, the landlord may reenter and
take possession of the dwelling unit,
at which time any rental agreement
or lease still in effect shall be
deemed to be terminated.
(c) The landlord shall not be
required to serve a notice to vacate
as provided in Section 1923.04 of the
Ohio Revised Code or to bring a
forcibly entry and detainer action
as provided in Chapter 1923 of the
Ohio Revised Code to obtain possession or occupancy of a dwelling
unit that, according to the provisions of this Section, the tenant has
abandoned. Nothing in this Section
shall relieve a landlord from complying with the provisions of Chapters 1923 and 5321 of the Ohio
Revised
Code,
if
the
landlord
knows, or reasonably should know,
that the tenant has not abandoned
the dwelling unit.

May 16, 2001
(d) The landlord shall inventory
any possessions and personal effects
of the tenant that are in the
dwelling unit and shall remove and
keep them for not less than thirty
days. The tenant may reclaim such
possessions and personal effects
from the landlord within that thirty-day period. If the tenant does not
reclaim such possessions and personal effects by the end of that thirty-day period, the landlord may dispose of them as the landlord deems
appropriate.
(e) No action shall be brought
under Section 5321.15 of the Ohio
Revised Code against a landlord
who takes action in compliance with
the provisions of this Section.
Section 375.11 Severability
If any provision or clause of this
Chapter or its application to any
person or in any circumstances is
held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of this Chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions of this Chapter shall
be severable.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
meaure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Without
objection,
substitute
agreed to. Ordinance 1844-99 Laid on
the Table.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Legislation.
Ord. No. 798-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance approving a five year comprehensive housing affordability strategy for the
City developed under the “CranstonGonzalez National Affordable Housing Act” (the “Plan”) for the development and maintenance of affordable housing within the City boundaries; ratifying Ordinances authorizing
the
expenditure
of
moneys
raised by taxation to provide, or
assist in providing, housing pursuant to Section 16 of Article VIII,
Ohio Constitution which programs
for housing assistance and Plan
have been reviewed and approved
by the City of Cleveland Housing
Advisory Board pursuant to law;
authorizing, approving and ratifying related matters.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that to
enhance the availability of adequate housing in the City and to
improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
it is in the public interest and a
proper public purpose for the City
to provide and/or assist in providing housing for individuals and
families; and
Whereas, in compliance with Ohio
law, the City has established a
Housing Advisory Board for review
of the City’s comprehensive affordable housing strategy and various
housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, consistent with Ohio
law, the Director of Community
Development provided a five year
comprehensive housing affordability
strategy for the City developed
under the “Cranston-Gonzalez Na-

The City Record
tional Affordable Housing Act” for
the development and maintenance of
affordable housing within the City
boundaries to the Housing Advisory
Board for its review and recommendations; and
Whereas, after review by the
Housing Advisory Board in excess
of 30 days, the Board unanimously
approved the Plan; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board, after reviewing in excess of
15 days specific housing assistance
programs enacted by Council for
neighborhood home repair programs
and assistance to homeowners for
condominium conversion, approved
each program; and
Whereas,
Council
desires
to
approve the Plan and authorize and
ratify its previously enacted housing assistance programs which have
been approved by the Housing Advisory Board in compliance with Ohio
law; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Council of the
City of Cleveland hereby approves
the five year comprehensive housing
affordability strategy for the City
developed under the “Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing
Act” (the “Plan”) for the development and maintenance of affordable
housing within the City boundaries
which Plan is made a part of File
No. 798-01-A.
Section 2. That, Council hereby
approves and ratifies the following
previously enacted Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland authorizing
various City home repair assistance
programs
through
an
appointed
agent:
Ordinance No. 431-2000, passed
March 20, 2000 is hereby ratified and
approved.
Ordinance No. 110-2000, passed
January 24, 2000 is hereby ratified
and approved.
Ordinance No. 1504-2000 passed
August 28, 2000 is hereby ratified
and approved.
Ordinance No. 948-2000, passed
May 22, 2000 is hereby ratified and
approved.
Ordinance No. 277-2000 passed February 28, 2000 is hereby ratified and
approved.
Section 3. That, Council hereby
approves and ratifies the following
previously enacted Ordinance of the
City of Cleveland, subject to the following amendment, authorizing a
program of assistance to homeowners
for
condominium
conversion
through
their
agent
Cleveland
Restoration Society:
That Section 1 of Ordinance No.
2131-2000, passed November 20, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Cleveland Restoration Society,
as agent for the individuals and families in order to carry out the public
purpose of rehabilitation of housing
and furthering the community plan
for East 105th Street and East Blvd.
neighborhood by the conversion of
six cooperative housing units to condominiums for such individuals and
families through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
That, existing Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2131-2000, passed November 20, 2000, is hereby repealed.

925

7
Section 4. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council and any of its committees
concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken,
and that all deliberations of this
Council and of any of its committees
that resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 799-01.
By Councilmen Brady, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Kadel Avenue
sewer, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Kadel Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38124.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

8
Ord. No. 800-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment to
hang six (6) banners on Mayfield
Road using Cleveland Public Power
utility poles (by separate permission) for the period of May 11, 2001
to June 11, 2001, inclusive, publicizing various special neighborhood
events in this area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Little
Italy 2000 Redevelopment Corporation, 12510 Mayfield Road, Cleveland
Ohio 44106, to install, maintain and
remove six (6) banners to be hung
on Cleveland Public Power utility
poles, (by separate permission) publicizing various special neighborhood events in this area for the period of May 11, 2001 to June 11, 2001,
inclusive, and which banners are to
be hung at the following pole locations and on the following pole numbers: 12009 Mayfield Road, Pole
#ES-40; 12021 Mayfield Road, Pole
#ES-40-1; 12113 Mayfield Road, Pole
#ES-40-2; 12307 Mayfield Road, ES40-4; 12407 Mayfield Road, Pole #ES40-5; and which pole locations and
banners shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner, and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 801-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with InterAct Cleveland
for support for the food cooperative
and
related
food
transportation
costs, to further the public purpose
of providing food for persons in
need through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with InterAct Cleveland for
support for the food cooperative and
related food transportation costs, to
further the public purpose of providing food for persons in need.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 802-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Cleveland Tenants
Organization for the organization of
new and support of existing tenant
organizations in seven (7) multifamily rental housing developments
in Ward 6, to further the public purpose of educating residents of tenant rights, and providing related
social services through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland Tenants Organization for the organization of new
and support of existing tenant organizations in seven (7) multi-family
rental
housing
developments
in
Ward 6, to further the public purpose of educating residents of tenant rights, and providing related
social services.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,800 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

926

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 803-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with ORCA House for the
replacement of a boiler in order to
carry out the public purpose of
assisting the provision of social services through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with ORCA House for the replacement of a boiler in order to carry
out the public purpose of assisting
the provision of social services
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $16,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 804-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Senior Outreach Services, Inc. to provide meal and
social service programs in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing social services through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Senior Outreach Services,
Inc. to provide meal and social service programs in order to carry out
the public purpose of providing
social services through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $17,164 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

May 16, 2001
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 805-01.
By Councilman Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Mt. Overlook Avenue,
S.E. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 12th day of February 2001, the Council of the City
of Cleveland adopted Resolution
No. 1883-2001 declaring its intention to vacate a portion of Mt.
Overlook Avenue S.E., hereinafter
described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1883-2001
has been served upon the owners of
all the property abutting Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E. affected by said
Resolution, notifying the said property owners of the time and place
at which objections can be heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 24th day of April,
2001, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of the Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E.,
hereinafter described, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 176 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E., hereinafter described and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E. (40.00 feet
wide),
extending
Easterly
from
Easterly line of Martin Luther King,
Jr. Drive S.E. (130.00 feet wide) to
the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot Number 51 in
the East Boulevard Subdivision as
shown in Volume 54, Page 9 of
Cuyahoga County Records, be and
the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland
easement
or
payment
of
charges to Cleveland Public Power,
and an easement for existing Division of Water equipment, Division
of Water Pollution Control equipment, and Dominion East Ohio Gas
equipment.
The description of the easement is
as follows:
That portion of Mt. Overlook
Avenue
S.E.
(40.00
feet
wide),
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard S.E. (130.00 feet wide) to
the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot Number 51 in
the East Boulevard Subdivision as
shown in Volume 54, Page 9 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
That no structures shall be hereafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those constructed
in accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Division of

The City Record
Water Pollution Control, the Division of Water, Cleveland Public
Power, and Dominion East Ohio
Gas Company, of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby directed to notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga County
of the vacation of all that portion of
Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E., herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 806-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Marquette Street N.E.
hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 27th day of
November 2000, the Council of the
City of Cleveland adopted Resolution No. 1813-2000 declaring its intention to vacate a portion of Marquette
Street
N.E.,
hereinafter
described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1813-2000
has been served upon the owners of
all the property abutting the Marquette Street N.E. affected by said
Resolution, notifying the said property owners of the time and place
at which objections can be heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 24th day of April,
2001, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of the Marquette Street N.E., hereinafter
described,
in
accordance
with the provisions of Section 176 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Marquette Street N.E., hereinafter described and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Marquette Street N.E. (100.00 feet
wide), extending Southerly from the
Southerly line of St. Clair Avenue
N.E. (99.00 feet wide), to its intersection with the Northerly line of
Standard Avenue N.E. (50.00 feet
wide) and the Westerly line of East
55th Street (100.00 feet wide) be and
the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland
easements
or
payment
of
charges to Cleveland Public Power,
and the Division of Water, and an
easement for existing Division of
Water Pollution Control equipment,
and Dominion East Ohio Gas equipment.
The description of the easement is
as follows:
That portion of Marquette Street
N.E. (100.00 feet w1de), extending
Southerly from the Southerly line of

927

9
St. Clair Avenue N.E. (99.00 feet
wide), to its intersection with the
Northerly line of Standard Avenue
N.E. (50.00 feet wide) and the Westerly line of East 55th Street (100.00
feet wide).
That no structures shall be hereafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Division of
Water Pollution Control, and Dominion East Ohio Gas Company, of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby directed to notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga County
of the vacation of all that portion of
Marquette Street N.E., herein provided by sending him a copy of this
Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 807-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 287.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
increasing penalties for air pollution
code violations.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is concerned about the
frequency and severity of air pollution emissions, violations of the air
pollution laws of the City, State of
Ohio and Federal Government, and
violations of the permits granted to
industries; and
Whereas, the City’s air pollution
laws, and in particular the penalties
for violations, have not been updated since 1977; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that the City must make a greater
effort to enforce the City’s air pollution code, and that increased
penalties
for
violations
will
enhance a stronger effort by the
City in protecting the air breathed
by our citizens and visitors; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 287.03 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 is hereby amended,
to read as follows:
Section 287.03 Penalties
(a) No person shall violate any
provision of this Code, or any permit issued under the authority of
this Code, and no person shall participate in the violation of its provisions or any permit issued hereunder.
(b) Whoever violates Sections
265.02(a) or 277.09(a) or participates
in the violation of such sections is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree and shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500) or
imprisoned not more than sixty (60)
days, or both.
(c) Whoever violates any provision of this Code, except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be fined not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) or

10
imprisoned not more than six (6)
months, or both.
(d) Each day of any violation
shall constitute a separate offense
and shall be subject to the penalties
set forth in this section.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Law; Committees on Public
Health, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 808-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Association to support a neighborhood festival in order to carry out the public purpose of sponsoring a festival
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association to
support a neighborhood festival in
order to carry out the public purpose
of sponsoring a festival through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 809-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Tremont
West
Development Corporation for the
development of a master plan and a
HOPE VI application in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing housing through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Tremont West Development Corporation for the development of a master plan and a HOPE
VI application in order to carry out
the public purpose of providing
housing through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $75,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 810-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Cleveland Tenants
Organization for the organization of
new and support of existing tenant
organizations in four (4) multi-family rental housing developments in
Ward 13, to further the public purpose of educating residents of tenant rights, and providing related
social services through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland Tenants Organization for the organization of new
and support of existing tenant organizations in four (4) multi-family
rental
housing
developments
in
Ward 13, to further the public purpose of educating residents of tenant rights, and providing related
social services.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $11,720 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

928

May 16, 2001
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 811-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Flats Realty, LTD. to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the improvement
of real property located at 955 West
Street
and
the
acquisition
and
installation of machinery and equipment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Flats Realty, LTD. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the improvement
of real property located at 955 West
Street
and
the
acquisition
and
installation of machinery and equipment.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 81101-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Hundred
Sixty
Thousand
Dollars
($160,000.00), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 12 SF 954, Request No.
26657, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file referenced above in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 12 SF 958.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 812-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 3123.10, thereof relating
to pedestrian barriers along the
Cuyahoga and Old Rivers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 3123.10 thereof to read
as follows:
Section 3123.10 Pedestrian Barriers
(a) No later than sixty (60) days
from the effective date of this ordinance, every owner or occupant of
property abutting the Cuyahoga
River or Old River and containing a
commercial establishment with alcohol-selling boundaries that include
an area outside of a building, which
area extends to the river’s edge and
is accessible to the public and/or
patrons of the commercial establishment, shall install a continuous
Pedestrian
Barrier
between
the
river and any open area accessible
to the public.
(b) The requirements for the
Pedestrian Barrier shall be determined by the location of the barrier in relation to the water’s edge.
The Pedestrian Barrier must be
installed from zero inches (0") to
forty-two inches (42") from the
water’s edge.
(c) From zero inches (0") to thirty inches (30") from the water’s
edge, the Pedestrian Barrier shall
conform to the requirements for
Guards as dictated in the latest edition of the Ohio Basic Building
Code.
(d) From greater than thirty
inches (30") to forty-two inches
(42") from the water’s edge, the
Pedestrian Barrier shall conform to
the following criteria:
(1) six inch (6") diameter painted
steel
vertical
posts
spaced
no
greater than twelve feet (12’) apart
and securely affixed to withstand a
two hundred pound (200 lb.) lateral
live load;
(2) seven (7) horizontal strands of
one-eighth inch (1/8") galvanized
steel cable, evenly spaced between
the posts and attached securely at
the ends with the top cable to be
installed not less than forty-two
inches (42") above the surface of
the deck.
(e) Where mooring is allowed,
there shall be at least one gated
opening per establishment to provide safe ingress and egress from
the river for the type of vessel being
served. The width of the gated opening shall not exceed five feet (5').
The operator of the establishment
shall submit, with the building permit application, a written policy outlining how the gated opening will
be managed to provide the greatest
safety for boaters and pedestrians.
(f) The installation of the Pedestrian Barrier shall require a permit
issued
by
the
Commissioner
of
Building and Housing and the City
Planning Commission shall approve
the design.

The City Record
(g) The City Planning Commission, in consultation with its designated design review committee, may
approve a Pedestrian Barrier design
which varies from the standards
established in this division if the
commission
determines
that
the
alternate design is more appropriate
to the design of the property and its
environs, while meeting all of the
safety requirements of this division.
(h) Whoever violates this section
shall be guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 813-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of replacing the
incinerator pump station in Ward 13,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract for
the making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of replacing the incinerator
pump station in Ward 13, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38123.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

929

11
Ord. No. 814-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 551.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
2433-87, passed February 1, 1988,
relating to the use of City transfer
site.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 551.29 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2433-87, passed February 1, 1988, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 551.29 Use of City Transfer Site
(a) The Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to determine, with the approval of Council,
and collect, a service charge per
ton for a load of privately hauled
solid waste received at a City
transfer site, such charge to be
computed to the nearest hundredweight.
(b) The Director of Public Service
shall issue permits for transfer site
usage only for the disposal of waste
accumulated in the City. Permits
may be revoked for cause.
(c) Any person who is a resident
of the City may, a maximum of four
times a year, haul non-commercial
solid waste accumulated in the City
to a City transfer site without
obtaining a permit for transfer site
usage or paying any service charge
authorized by this section.
Concrete, bricks, dirt, rocks, mortar, toxic and hazardous materials
and all other materials prohibited
under state law shall not be accepted.
Proof of City residency shall be
evidenced by presentation of a valid
driver’s license and a recent utility
bill.
City transfer sites shall remain
open on Saturdays between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
Section 2. That existing the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
2433-87, passed February 1, 1988, is
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Service,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 815-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Esperenza, Inc. for
developing and operating a computer lab and educational program to
carry out the public purpose of providing
educational
programming
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

12
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Esperenza, Inc. for developing and operating a computer lab
and educational program to carry
out the public purpose of providing
educational programming through
the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 816-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of tire recapping, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of tire
recapping
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than a
year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which

The City Record
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 29590)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 817-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 951-99,
passed June 14, 1999, relating to a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Transportation
for
the
Eagle
Avenue
Bridge
and
Alternative
Analysis Study, and employing professional consultants to perform the
study.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 951-99, passed June 14,
1999, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 951-99-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$105,000, payable from Fund Nos. 20
SF 302 and 20 SF 334, is hereby
approved in all respects.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 951-99, passed June
14, 1999, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 818-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Touchstone Management for partial funding of
improvements to Hilltop Estates in
order to carry out the public purpose
of improving residents living conditions through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

930

May 16, 2001
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Touchstone Management
for partial funding of improvements
to Hilltop Estates in order to carry
out the public purpose of improving
residents living conditions through
the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $60,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 819-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with The Oasis Development Corporation
for
funding
their R.O.P.E.S. alternative school
program in order to carry out the
public purpose of educating Cleveland children through the use of
Ward
10
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Oasis Development
Corporation
for
funding
their
R.O.P.E.S. alternative school program in order to carry out the public purpose of educating Cleveland
children through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $16,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 820-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Melbourne
Avenue sewer, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Melbourne Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for the making of
the above public improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder after
competitive bidding upon a unit
basis for the improvement provided
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
said improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38125.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 821-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, O’Malley and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Fairway
Drive area sewer, and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section
167 of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland, it is hereby determined to
make the public improvement of
rehabilitating and replacing the Fairway Drive area sewer, for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the mak-

The City Record
ing of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38122.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 822-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 468-2000,
passed November 13, 2000; to supplement said ordinance by adding
new Sections 4 and 5; and to renumber existing Section 4 to new Section 6, relating to a data network,
for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed November
13, 2000, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide services necessary for the design and installation
of a data network, including materials, maintenance and software necessary for its operation; and authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of network hardware and
accessories, including maintenance
and installation, if necessary.
Section 2. That the existing title of
Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed November 13, 2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 4682000, passed November 13, 2000, is
hereby supplemented by adding new
Sections 4 and 5 to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract
in accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements
for the period of one year for the
necessary items of network hardware, including but not limited to
routers,
switches,
firewalls,
and
management software which is not
included under Section 1 of this ordinance, all which are necessary for
the operation of the data network
system, including maintenance and
installation, if necessary, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Department of Port
Control. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be

931

13
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 5. That the cost of said
contract authorized in Section 4 of
this ordinance shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 8269)
Section 4. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed
November 13, 2000, is hereby renumbered to new Section 6.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 823-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide
professional
services
to
design the replacement of the apron
around Concourse “C”, including
associated utilities, temporary pavement for the maintenance of traffic
on the ramp, and any environmental-related
services
necessary
to
complete the project for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the replacement of the
apron around Concourse “C”, including associated utilities, temporary
pavement for the maintenance of
traffic on the ramp, and any environmental-related services necessary
for the Department of Port Control
from a list of qualified consultants
available for such employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling such a list. The compensation
to be paid for such services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.

14
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001,
60 SF 105, 60 SF 104, passenger facility charges and the fund and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue
bonds, federal grants, state grants,
and local grants issued for the purposes of the project, Request No.
30936.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 824-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County for
the 2001-2002 Center Point/Student
Assistance/Drug
Prevention
Program; and to enter into a contract
for the lease of facilities needed to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the
approximate
amount
of
$480,309.00, and any other funds as
they become available during the
grant term, from the Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of
Cuyahoga County, to conduct the
2001-2002 Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program, for
the purposes set forth in the program
description
and
according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Health is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
said grant; and that said funds be
and they hereby are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the program description for said grant.
Section
2.
That
the
program
description for said grant, File No.
824-01-A, made a part hereof as if
fully rewritten herein, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in
the sum of $15,000, to be paid from
Fund No. 01-500500-639905, is hereby
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Health is hereby authorized to lease
a facility for the implementation of
the grant. The term of the lease
shall not exceed the grant period
and shall be payable from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted pursuant to
Section 1 of this ordinance.
That the lease may authorize the
City to make improvements to the
leased premises under terms to be
determined by the parties consistent
with the purposes of the grant. That
the lease may provide for the City’s
payment of appropriate utility and

The City Record
other operating costs of the leased
premises.
That the lease shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall
contain such authorized terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the City.
That
the
Director
of
Public
Health, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials, are
authorized to execute such other
documents and certificates, and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 825-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the State Childhood Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $92,000, from the Ohio
Department of Health, to conduct
the State Childhood Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program, for the purposes set forth in the executive summary and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the executive summary for said grant.
Section 2. That the executive summary for said grant, File No. 825-01A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 826-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with MetroHealth for
conducting
AIDS/HIV
outreach
activities in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing social
services through the use of Ward 5
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

932

May 16, 2001
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with MetroHealth for conducting AIDS/HIV outreach activities in
order to carry out the public purpose
of providing social services through
the use of Ward 5 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $66,972 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 827-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
YWCA of Cleveland to hang approximately 30 banners to be hung on
CPP and CEI utility poles (by separate
permission)
on
Prospect
Avenue on East 40th Street between
Carnegie and Euclid Avenues for
the period of June 1, 2001 to July 5,
2001, inclusive, publicizing the opening of their new facility.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to YWCA of
Cleveland, 3101 Euclid Avenue, Suite
711, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, to install,
maintain and remove approximately
thirty
(30)
banners
using
both
Cleveland Public Power and Cleveland Electric Illuminating utility
poles, (by separate permission) publicizing the opening of their new
facility, for the period of June 1,
2001 to July 5, 2001, inclusive, and
which banners are to be hung at the
following pole locations and on the
following pole numbers: Cleveland
Electric Illuminating utility poles
(by separate permission) at 538973,
507451, 53448, 24049, 538972, 538971
these banners are to located on East
40th Street
between Carnegie and
Euclid Avenues; and Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate
permission) at the following locations and pole numbers: Prospect
Ave. (North Side); B31-3, 2nd St. Lt.
W. of E. 40th; B31-2, 1st St. Lt. W.
of E. 40th; B29-1, 1st St. Lt. E. of E.
40th; B29-2, 2nd St. Lt. E. of E. 40th
St.; Prospect Ave. (South Side); B302, 2nd St. Lt. W. of E. 40th; B30-1,
1st St. Lt. W. of E. 40th; B29-17, 1st
St. Lt. E. of E. 40th; B29-18, 2nd St.

May 16, 2001
Lt. E. of E. 40th St.; Prospect Rd.
(Northeast Side); B29-31, 1st St. Lt.
S. of Prospect Ave.; B29-30, 2nd St.
Lt. S. of Prospect Ave.; B29-29, 1st
St. Lt. E. of E. 46th; B29-28, 2nd St.
Lt. E. of E. 46th; B29-27, 1st St. Lt.
N. of Carnegie; Prospect Rd. (Southwest Side); B29-20, 1st St. Lt. S. of
Prospect Ave.; B29-21, 2nd St. Lt. S.
of Prospect Ave.; B29-22, 1st St. Lt.
W. of E. 46th; B29-24, 1st St. Lt. E.
of E. 46th; B29-26, 1st St. Lt. N. of
Carnegie; Carnegie (North Side);
B50-47, 2nd St. Lt. W. of E. 55th; B5049, 1st St. Lt. W. of E. 55th; KT2-33,
1st St. Lt. E. of E. 55th; K3-28, 2nd
St. Lt. E. of E. 55th; Carnegie (South
Side); E2-117A-4-3 @ Prospect Rd.;
K3-3, 1st St. Lt. E. of E. 55th; K3-4,
2nd St. Lt. E. of E. 55th; and said
banners
and
locations
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner, and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 828-01.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 9113 Union Avenue to
Center for Families and Children.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing, for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 127-14-010,
as more fully described below, to
Center for Families and Children.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 127-14-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
32 in the Sherban H. Wightman’s
Subdivision of a part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 440, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 3 rods
front on the Northerly side of Union
Avenue, S.E., (formerly known as
Front Street) and extending back of
equal width 12 rods and 18 links
deep, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six months of
the effective date of this ordinance,
or such additional time as may be
granted by the Director of Community Development, this ordinance
shall be repealed and shall be of no
further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and, benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 829-01.
By Councilmen Johnson, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56406
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation for additional administrative costs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56406
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation for additional administrative costs and to increase the
amount of the contract by $37,500.00,
for a total of $152,500.00. Said
increase shall be paid from Fund
No. 14 SF 027, Request No. 36392.

933

15
Section 2. That this First Amendment shall be prepared and approved
by the Director of Law and shall contain such provisions as he deems necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 830-01.
By Councilmen Jones, O’Malley and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating
and
replacing
the
Naples
Avenue sewer, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Naples Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38126.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 831-01.
By Councilmen Jones, O’Malley and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 143rd
Street sewer, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.

16
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the East 143rd Street sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized

The City Record
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38119.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 832-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Esperenza, Inc. for
agency relocation costs and programmatic assistance in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing
educational
programs
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

May 16, 2001
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with
Esperenza,
Inc.
for
agency relocation costs and programmatic assistance in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing
educational
programs
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $85,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 833-01.
By Councilman Melena (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to The Cleveland Catholic
Diocese, for Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Church to hang approximately (16) sixteen banners on the north & south
sides of Detroit Ave. using C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission) which will encroach into the public rightof-way of Detroit Ave. to celebrate Mt. Carmel Church's 75th Anniversary in service to the community.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council and assignable by the Permittee with the consent of the Director of Public Service to the Cleveland Catholic
Diocese on behalf of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Church, 6928 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, its successors
and assigns, to encroach into the public right-of-way of Detroit Avenue with approximately sixteen (16) banners
to be hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) at the locations described as follows:
LOCATION/ADDRESS:
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF DETROIT AVENUE:
6902 Detroit,
Church Driveway
6928 Detroit,
Church Building
7000 Detroit
7006 Detroit
Berry’s Parking Lot
7200 Detroit
SOUTH SIDE OF DETROIT AVENUE:
6901 Detroit
6907 Detroit
6917 Detroit
6929 Detroit
7001 Detroit
McDonalds Restaurant on
Detroit Avenue
Auto Parts Store Parking Lot
on Detroit Avenue
Across Detroit Avenue from
Berry’s Funeral Home

POLE NUMBER:

POLE OWNER:

#TT-38
#TT-39
#TT-40
#TT-41
#TT-42
#TT-43
#TT-44
#TT-45

C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.

#TT-3 (4875)
#TT-4
#TT-5
#TT-6
#TT-7

C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.

#TT-8

C.P.P.

#TT-9

C.P.P.

#TT-10

C.P.P.

Section 2. That said banners will be hung within the public right-of-way of portions of the street as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.

934

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 834-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Gordon,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
lease
property
known as 23600 Mercantile Road,
Unit J, from Mercantile Associates
for a term not to exceed ten months,
for the public purpose of leasing
space to store goods necessary for
the
operation
of
the
Cleveland
House of Corrections.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
requires certain space located at
23600 Mercantile Road, Unit J, in
Beachwood,
Ohio,
including
the
exclusive use of ten parking spaces,
and the non-exclusive use of common parking and loading areas, for
the public purpose of leasing space
to store goods necessary for the
operation of the Cleveland House of
Corrections; and
Whereas, Mercantile Associates
has proposed to lease said space to
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
lease from Mercantile Associates
certain space more fully described
as
follows:
approximately
5,400
square feet of space located at
23600
Mercantile
Road,
Unit J,
Beachwood, Ohio, including the exclusive use of ten parking spaces,
and the non-exclusive use of common parking and loading areas
(“Premises”).
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by Section 1 shall
not exceed ten months.
Section 3. That the rent for the
lease authorized by Section 1 shall
be a base rate of $3,000 per month,
exclusive of utilities. The City of
Cleveland shall also pay 5.4% of the
cost of the Common Area Maintenance expenses for 23500-23600 Mercantile Road.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize the City to make improvements to the lease premises under
terms to be determined by the parties consistent with the public purpose or purposes of leasing space to
store goods necessary for the operation of the Cleveland House of Corrections.
Section 5. That the lease may provide for the City’s payment of appropriate utility and other operating
costs of the leased premises.
Section 6. That the costs of the
lease shall be paid from Fund No.
17 SF 684, Request No. 26659.
Section 7. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such authorized
terms
and
conditions
as
are
required to protect the interests of
the City.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic
Development
and
the
Director of Law, and other appropriate City officials, are authorized
to execute such other documents
and certificates, and take such other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate
to
effect
the
lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record

17

measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Public Health, City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Community and
Economic
Development,
Public
Health, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 835-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Gordon
and
Patmon
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to expend
Community
Development
Block
Grant funds for the Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP)
and the CHORE Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of One Hundred Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($125,000.00)
from Fund No. 14 SF 027 Request No.
36389, are hereby appropriated for
the Senior Homeowners Assistance
Program (“SHAP”) and the CHORE
Program in conjunction with the
Community
Development
Block
Grant Program, Year 27 in the following amounts:
Personnel expenses:
Other expenses:

$116,000
$ 9,000

Section 2. That the Director of
Aging and the Director of Community
Development
are
hereby
authorized to enter into a memorandum of understanding for this
program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Health,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 836-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

935

Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of said contract shall be in an
amount not to exceed $500,000.00,
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SC 027, Request No. 36388.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 837-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a contract
with the non-profit agency to operate a community garden program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community gardening
program
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract or contracts shall be in an
amount not to exceed $95,000.00, and
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SC
027 Request No. 36387.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 838-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Kelly Services, Inc. for the provision of professional services necessary for clerical and secretarial
services, for the Division of Administrative Services, Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Kelly Services, Inc. for the pro-

18
vision of professional services necessary for clerical and secretarial
services, payable from Fund No. 14
SF 025, Request No. 36386, for the
Division of Administrative Services,
Department of Community Development.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 839-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds and Federal
Home funds for the operation of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs; and to enter into contract
with various agencies to implement
these programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year XXVII and
Federal HOME grant funds, from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Community
Development
Block
Grant
funds
from Fund No. 14 SF 027, and Federal Home Program funds from
Fund 13 SC 929, Request 36390, in
the amount of $8,442,000 for other
expenses are hereby appropriated
for the operation of the Low Interest
Loan
and
Grant
Programs,
including all related services. The
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs
include
Repair-A-Home
(RAH), Corrective Action Grant,
Afford-A-Home (AAH), Senior Home
Owners
Assistance
Program
(SHAP), Paint Refund Program,
Housewarming, Furnace Repair, and
Home Maintenance Assistance Program (HMAP).
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies,
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under said programs and to utilize
said repayments, and other program
income in a revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and administrative expenses,
which
repayments
and
program
income are hereby appropriated for
those purposes.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes, naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.

The City Record
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into forbearance agreements with any recipient
of a validly existing loan administered by the City, and to charge
and accept fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of loan
documents, closing, and servicing
costs. Such fees shall be deposited
into Fund No. 14 and are hereby
appropriated for the purposes of
the Low Interest Loan and Grant
Program.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 840-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations and private for profit entities
and to enter into or amend memorandums of understanding with various City of Cleveland departments
to implement the City’s community
development
programs
and
to
expend funds for the operation of
programs
administered
by
the
Department of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the
Year 27 Community Development
Block Grant Plan as set forth in
File No. 124-01-A, pursuant to Ordinance No. 124-01, passed March 26,
2001; and
Whereas, in prior Block Grant
years, the Council has approved
Block Grant Plans; and
Whereas, the Block Grant Plans
as approved commit funds to Neighborhood
Development
Activities
(“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible
activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations and private for
profit entities for activities and programs that are eligible under the
Community
Development
Block
Grant (“CDBG”) Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter

936

May 16, 2001
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible
under the CDBG Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into contract using NDA Funds with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $10,500,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SC
027.
Section 6. That the Director of
the
Department
of
Community
Development is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with the
entities
administering the
NDA
program that generated the program income in an amount not to
exceed that generated
program
income and to expend funds for the
programs
administered
by
the
Department of Community Development that generated program
income in an amount not to exceed
that generated program income in
an amount not to exceed that generated program income, all to be
paid from the revolving fund in
Fund 14.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 841-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract with a natural gas supplier to offer a negotiated
gas rate to gas customers in the City
of Cleveland on a voluntary basis.
Whereas, recent increases in the
rates for natural gas have created
economic hardships for the residents
and businesses in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section 4,
Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitu-

May 16, 2001
tion, the City has plenary power to
own and operate municipal utilities
or to contract with others for the
provision of utility services to the
residents and businesses located
within the City; and
Whereas, on April 9, 2001, Ordinance No. 640-01 was introduced to
allow the electors of the City to
decide
at
a
special
election
whether the City should create an
automatic natural gas aggregation
program
pursuant
to
Section
4929.20, et seq., of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, because an automatic
aggregation program created pursuant to Ohio statute cannot be
implemented in time for the 20012002 heating season, it is desirable
to initiate an interim program to
provide relief for the City’s residents and businesses during the
upcoming winter; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with a natural gas supplier for the supply of natural gas to customers in the City at
a negotiated rate and at the customer’s option.
Section 2. That the selection of
such natural gas supplier shall be
made by the Board of Control upon
the nomination of the Director of
Public Utilities from a list of qualified gas suppliers as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities for the purpose of compiling
such a list.
Section 3. That the contract authorized herein shall allow the contractor to include the City’s endorsement in order to market the contractor’s services to the gas customers in the City.
The contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such other
provisions as said Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 4. That the costs for the
services herein contemplated shall
be borne by the contractor.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 842-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into contract without competitive bidding with Dictaphone Corporation for the purchase of a maintenance agreement for
Dictaphone
equipment, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Dictaphone Corporation. Therefore,
the Director of Public Utilities is
hereby authorized to make a written contract with said Dictaphone
Corporation upon the basis of their
proposal dated January 16, 2001, for
the purchase of a maintenance
agreement for Dictaphone equipment
located
at
1201
Lakeside
Avenue and 4600 Harvard Avenue,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a
gross price for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 33782.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 843-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary to
install various types of equipment
and the purchase of machinery necessary for the operation of the Eastside Service Center, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: labor and materials necessary to install various types of
equipment and the purchase of
machinery necessary for the operation of the Eastside Service Center,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon
a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall not
exceed $300,000.00 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 57 SF 001, Request
No. 21481.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

937

19
Ord. No. 844-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary for
the layout, binding and printing of
the 1999 and 2000 Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report, for the
Division of Financial Reporting
and
Control,
Department
of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: labor and materials necessary for the layout, binding and
printing of the 1999 and 2000 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(“CAFR”), to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross price for the Division of Financial Reporting and
Control, Department of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-998800-632000,
Request No. 4590.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 845-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating
and
replacing
the
Ostend
Avenue sewer, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Ostend Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be

20
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38120.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 846-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Euclid Creek
Development, Ltd. to encroach into
the public right-of-way, over, upon
and through Lakeport Road N.E. for
the
purpose
of
completing
the
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase
2.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Euclid Creek Development
Ltd., its successors and assigns, to
encroach into the public right-ofway, over, upon and through Lakeport Road N.E. for the purpose of
completing the Water’s Edge Condominium Phase 2 at the location
more fully described as follows:
LAKEPORT RD./LEGAL
DESCRIPTION/WATER’S
EDGE CONDOMINIUM PHASE 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being part of
Lakeport Road N.E. of part of Original Euclid Township, Tract No. 15,
and
is
further
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin
(#7065) found at the Southeasterly
corner of Lakeport Road N.E., (50
feet wide), as dedicated in Volume
88 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said point also
being the Northwesterly corner of
Block “C” in the Water’s Edge Condominiums Plat as recorded in Volume 303 of Maps, Page 75 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Thence North 26°-42'-35" East,
along the Southeasterly right-of-way
line of said Lakeport Road N.E., a
distance of 17.02 feet to the principal place of beginning of the land
herein described;
Course 1: Thence North 14°-18'-11"
West, a distance of 76.19 feet to the
Northwesterly right-of-way line of
said Lakeport Road N.E.;

The City Record
Course 2: Thence North 26°-42'-35"
East,
along
said
Northwesterly
right-of-way line of Lakeport Road
N.E., a distance of 30.48 feet;
Course 3: Thence South 14°-18'-11"
East, a distance of 76.19 feet to the
Southeasterly right-of-way line of
Lakeport Road N.E., as aforesaid;
Course 4: Thence South 26°-42'-35"
West,
along
said
Southeasterly
right-of-way line of Lakeport Road
N.E., a distance of 30.48 feet to the
principal place of beginning and
containing
0.0350
Acres
(1,524
Square Feet) of land. Be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That said encroachment
over, upon and through Lakeport
Road N.E. for the completion of the
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase
2, is located within the public rightof-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and
will be constructed in accordance
with
plans
and
specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including
a Building Permit, shall be obtained
before said Condominiums are constructed.
Section 3. That the permit herein
authorized shall reserve reasonable
right of entry to the City of Cleveland; and that said permit shall
require the Permittee to provide
general limited liability insurance,
and that Permittee shall maintain
any improvements made by the Permittee which are located within the
permitted encroachment area, and
that the Permittee shall pay any
applicable taxes and assessments
due and/or owing on the permitted
encroachment area.
Section 4. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 847-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
an agreement with ParkWorks to
allow and accept the renovations at
Luke Easter Park, as a gift to the
City.
Whereas, Parkworks received a
$100,000 grant from Local Initiatives
Support Corporation for this purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

938

May 16, 2001
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with ParkWorks to allow
it to construct a football changing
facility and to renovate the football
field at Luke Easter Park, and to
accept the improvements. The agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as
are necessary to protect the public
interest.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 848-01.
By Councilmen Rybka, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 2 of Ordinance
No. 1007-2000, passed October 23,
2000, relating to the sale of Cityowned property no longer needed for
public
use
located
at
6564-6566
Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
2 of Ordinance No. 1007-2000, passed
October 23, 2000, are hereby amended
to read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located
at
6564-6566
Broadway
Avenue to A.J. Broadway, Ltd.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above described property to A.J.
Broadway, Ltd. at a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control, taking into account such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 10072000, passed October 23, 2000, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 849-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating,
rehabilitating and improving various parks, recreation facilities and
property, including but not limited
to Camp Forbes, Martin Luther
King, Jr. overpass plantings, Cultural
Garden
Park
Station
and
Memorial Park site improvements,
and authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of renovating, rehabilitating
and improving various parks, recreation facilities and property, including but not limited to Camp Forbes,
Martin Luther King, Jr. overpass
plantings, Cultural Garden Park Station
and
Memorial
Park
site
improvements, for the Division of
Research, Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement
provided
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of
a separate contract upon a unit
basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
180, 20 SF 303, 20 SF 343, 20 SF 354,
20 SF 361 and 10 SF 039, Request No.
5091.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 850-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Board of Education to conduct
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of
school children during the 2001-2002
school year.

The City Record
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995,
tax revenues from levying the parking facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admissions tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2001-2002
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Finance are hereby authorized
to enter into contract with the Board
of Education of the Cleveland City
School District to conduct various
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of
City school children, in accordance
with the program description contained in File No. 850-01-A, for an
amount not to exceed $2,000,000,
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the taxes levied pursuant to Ordinance No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28,
1995, under such terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 851-01.
By Councilman Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Westport Avenue S.W.
hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 22nd day of May
2000, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
425-2000 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Westport Avenue
S.W., hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 425-2000
has been served upon the owners of
all the property abutting Westport
Avenue S.W. affected by said Resolution, notifying the said property
owners of the time and place at
which
objections
can
be
heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 24th day of April,
2001, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of the Westport Avenue S.W., hereinafter described, in accordance with
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and

939

21
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Westport Avenue S.W., hereinafter described and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Westport Avenue S.W. (54.00 feet
wide) and its Northerly and Southerly turn-outs extending Easterly from
the Easterly line of Rocky River
Drive (width varies) to that portion
of Westport Avenue S.W. vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance Number 1335-96, be and
the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland
an
easement
for
existing
Dominion East Ohio Gas equipment.
The description of the easement is
as follows:
That portion of Westport Avenue
S.W. (54.00 feet wide) and its
Northerly and Southerly turn-outs
extending Easterly from the Easterly line: of Rocky River Drive
(width varies) to that portion of
Westport Avenue S.W. vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance Number 1335-96.
That no structures shall be hereafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Dominion East Ohio Gas Company,
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby directed to notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga County
of the vacation of all that portion of
Westport Avenue S.W., herein provided by sending him a copy of this
ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 852-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Erwin Avenue
sewer, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby deter-

22
mined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Erwin Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38121.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 853-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution requesting that the Commissioner of Environment use all legal means under
the City’s air pollution code, Title V
of
the
Codified
Ordinances,
to
enforce air pollution laws to protect
the health of the citizens of the
City, and that the City’s Director of
Law update the City’s air pollution
code.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is concerned about the
frequency and severity of air pollution emissions, violations of the air
pollution laws of the City, State of
Ohio and Federal Government, and
violations of the permits granted to
industries; and
Whereas, the Council is concerned
about the health of the citizens of
the City, and the detrimental effects
on the health of individuals, and livability and economic viability of the
City, caused by air pollution, including particulates, dust, odors, smoke
and toxic air pollutants; and
Whereas, the City’s air pollution
code, contained in Title V, “Air Pollution Control,” of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, has numerous provisions that
could be utilized by the Commissioner of Environment and the
Bureau of Air Pollution Control to
curb violations, and thus demonstrate to the citizens of the City as
well as businesses, that the City
will not tolerate violations of air
pollution laws, permit violations,
air pollution nuisances or other
activities
that
jeopardize
the
health and well-being of the citizens of the City; and

The City Record
Whereas, the Council is concerned
that the City’s Bureau of Air Pollution Control is not actively and fully
utilizing the powers at its disposal
to seal industries that are in violation of the City’s air pollution laws,
to issue abatement orders, and to
cite violators under the City’s code;
and
Whereas, most of the City’s air
pollution laws have not been updated since 1977, and thus despite the
ability of the City to enforce existing air pollution laws, the entire
code must be reviewed and updated
to reflect changes in Federal and
State law, changes in technology,
and to provide the City additional
measures to fight against air pollution and its deleterious effects; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests that the Commissioner of
Environment immediately establish
a procedure by which Councilmembers may make formal complaints
against sources of air pollution, and
receive prompt responses as to the
measures
taken
to
determine
whether a violation of law and/or
permits has taken place, and what
action will be taken to curb violations and penalize the violators.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
requests that the Commissioner of
Environment utilize all measures at
the City’s disposal to seal any
source of air pollution in violation
of air pollution laws or permits,
including nuisances such as odors
and fugitive emissions, pursuant to
Section 287.01 of the Codified Ordinances,
that
the
Commissioner
promptly issue abatement orders,
pursuant to Section 255.04 of the
Codified Ordinances, and follow up
such orders with enforcement measures, and that the Commissioner
bring criminal enforcement actions
against violators that are not subject to active enforcement by the
State or Federal Environmental Protection Agencies.
Section
3.
That
this
Council
requests that the Director of Law,
with the advice and approval of
Council, update the air pollution
code of the City, Title V, “Air Pollution Control,” of the Codified Ordinances, to reflect changes in Federal and State law, changes in technology, and to provide the City
additional
measures
to
fight
against air pollution and its deleterious effects.
Section 4. That upon approval, the
Clerk of City Council is hereby
directed to deliver a copy of this
Resolution to the Mayor, to the
Director of Public Health, to the
Commissioner of Environment, and
to all members of the Industrial Air
Pollution
Advisory
Committee,
established
pursuant
to
Section
291.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 5. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Law; Committees on Public
Health, Legislation, Finance.

940

May 16, 2001
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 854-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Westown Community Development
Corporation to hang twelve (12)
banners
on
Lorain
Ave.
using
C.P.P. utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of May
1, 2001 to June 1, 2001, inclusive,
directing and identifying this community.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Westown
Community Development Corporation, 10313 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, to install, maintain
and remove twelve (12) banners to
be hung on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles, (by separate permission) directing and identifying this
community, for the period of May 1,
2001 to June 1, 2001, inclusive, and
which banners are to be hung at the
following pole locations and on the
following pole numbers on Lorain
Avenue: 10311 Lorain Ave. (S) pole
# AOM 22-48; 3rd pole E. of Joan (S),
pole # 20583; 2nd pole W. of West
110th St. (S), pole # 20580; 1st pole
E. of Bosworth (S), pole # EOM-15145, and/or S.E. Corner of Bosworth
(S), pole # 20528; N.W. Corner of W.
122nd (N), pole # ETM-11-44; S.E.
Corner W. 123nd (S), pole # 18610;
N.W. Corner W. 125th (N), pole #
ETM-11-47; S.E. Corner W. 127th (S),
pole # 18617; S.W. Corner W. 128th
(S), pole # 18621; 1st pole E. of W.
135th (N), pole # EOM-12-28; 1st pole
E. of W. 140th (N), pole # ETM-1325, and which poles location and
banners shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner, and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 855-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to 2516 Corporation
dba Great Lakes Brewing Co. to
encroach into the public right-ofway of West 26th Street with one
10" PVC pipeline, which will contain
two 2" beer lines; and one 6" PVC
pipeline which will contain computer and communication lines, and
enable rerouting the placement of
the original pipelines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to 2516 Corporation dba Great
Lakes Brewing Co., 2516 Market
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, its
successors and assigns, for the construction, use and maintenance of
one (1) 10" PVC pipeline which will
contain two (2) 2" stainless steel
beer pipelines; and one (1) 6" PVC
pipeline which will contain communication and computer lines, and
enable expansion and rerouting of
the original pipelines permitted by
Ordinance Number 1033-97, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on June 16, 1997, and which new
pipelines will encroach into the public right-of-way of West 26th Street
at the location more fully described
as follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION/PROPOSED
PIPELINE ENCROACHMENT/
WEST 26TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Numbers 69
and 70 and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southeasterly line of Carroll
Avenue (50.00 feet wide) and the
Northeasterly line of West 26th
Street (50.00 feet wide);
Thence South 30°-57'-09" East,
along the Northeasterly line of West
26th Street, 136.92 feet to a point and
the principal place of beginning;
Thence
South
30°-57'-09"
East
along the Northeasterly line of West
26th Street, 52.44 feet to a point;
Thence South 59°-02'-51"West, at
right angles with the last described
line, 8.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 30°-57'-09" West parallel with the Northeasterly line of
West 26th Street, 54.87 feet to a
point;
Thence North 75°-56'-35" East, 8.36
feet to the place of beginning, containing 429.24 square feet of land,
bearings are relative and are based
on the assumption of that West 26th
Street bears North 30°-57'-09" West,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways. This
legal description was prepared by
Carl P. Gulla, Jr., P.E., P.S., Registered Ohio Professional Surveyor
and Engineer, License Numbers S7418 and E-30968.
Section 2. That said pipelines will
be placed within the public right-ofway as aforesaid in Section 1, and
will be constructed in accordance
with
plans
and
specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including

The City Record
a building Permit, shall be obtained
before said pipelines are constructed.
Section 3. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 856-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1077-2000 passed June 5, 2000 to
authorize the Director of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with Kamm’s Corners
Development Corporation for competitively selected directional signage for the Southeast Parking
Facility, through the use of Ward 21
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1077-2000,
passed June 5, 2000, is hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation for competitively selected directional signage for
the
Southeast
Parking
Facility,
through the use of Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Kamm’s Corners Development
Corporation for competitively selected directional signage for the Southeast Parking Facility, through the
use of Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1077-2000,
passed June 5, 2000, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

941

23
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 857-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the YMCA World’s
Largest 5K Run on Saturday, June
2, 2001, sponsored by the YMCA.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the YMCA World’s
Largest 5K Run, sponsored by the
YMCA, on Saturday, June 2, 2001
beginning at the lower park trail,
north of pavilion, in line with 3rd
small tree north of where sidewalk
meets trail (86' north of sidewalk
on trail). Head clockwise around
lower park trail. Head west up
“Hill”. All the way on upper trail to
upper
park
entrance/exit
road.
Turn right (west) on the park exit
road, down grade on road to park
gate. At park gate turn right (west)
on the East Cliff Dr. (runners will
run on the north side of the street)
Turn right (west)on to West Cliff
Dr. to turnaround. Turnaround on
West Cliff Dr. at house #1401
(tan/white) in line with front yard
water meter cover (67' before/east
of fire hydrant). Head back east on
West Cliff to Edgewater Dr. Turn
left (East) on to Edgewater Dr. to
West Blvd./Park Rd. (stop sign).
Bear left and straight on to new
upper park trail. Stay on upper park
trail to upper park entrance road.
Turn right (east) on to upper park
road to last parking area. Just
before last parking area turn right
(east) on to upper park trail. (trail
goes behind/south of upper Pavilion) Stay on trail to where it merges
with main trail. Bear right on to
main trail, back down Hill. Bottom
of Hill bear left to finish. Finishline
- 57" north/pass starting line, provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police or safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.

24
Ord. No. 858-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The East 185th Street
Festival Run on August 2, 2001,
sponsored
by
Northeast
Shores
Development Corporation, as part of
the Annual Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the East 185th Street
Festival Run, sponsored by Northeast Shores Development Corporation, August 2, 2001, with the run
beginning
at
Villa
Angela/St.
Joseph High School to encompass a
scenic route along the westbound
lanes of Lake Shore Boulevard,
Euclid Creek State Park and the
residential area along Lake Erie,
and end at Villa Angela/St. Joseph
High School, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police or safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 859-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Northeast Shores Development
Corporation to stretch four (4) banners, on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles (by separate permission),
at
East
185th
Street
&
Villaview, Lakeshore Boulevard &
East 185th Street, LaSalle at East
185th Street and Pawnee at East
185th Street, for the period from
July 18, 2001 to August 11, 2001,
inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1979, the Director of permit the
Northeast Shores Development Corporation to install maintain and
remove four (4) banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by
separate permission), on East 185th
Street & Neff Rd., Lake Shore Blvd.
& East 185th St., LaSalle at East
185th St. & Pawnee at E. 185th for
the period from July 18, 2001 to
August 11, 2001, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from with
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on
said banner and said banner shall
be printed or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 860-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, O’Malley
and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing an amendment to the cable television
franchise
agreement
to
increase the annual fee paid for
operation of community access channels.
Whereas, this Council desires to
amend the franchise agreement to
increase the sum to be paid annually from the Franchise Fee to
Cleveland Community Access Corporation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the cable television franchise agreement, City Contract 37286, is hereby amended to
provide that the annual sum allocated from the Franchise Fee to be
paid
to
Cleveland
Community
Access Corporation for the operation
of community access channels shall
be in an amount not to exceed Four
Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($450,000.00) in 2001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

942

May 16, 2001
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 862-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues to
the National League of Cities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2001-02 membership dues of the City of Cleveland
to be made to the National League
of Cities from Fund No. 01-999800623800, Request No. _______.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 861-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution supporting H.R. 1564, creating and funding
the Federal Bank for Infrastructure
Modernization for purposes of funding state and local infrastructure
projects.
Whereas,
Congressmen
Dennis
Kucinich and Steven LaTourette
joined in a recent bipartisan effort
to
introduce H.R.
1564 in the
United States House of Representatives that would create and fund
a program to provide zero-interest
loans to finance state and local
infrastructure
projects
in
the
amount of approximately $500 billion over the course of 10 years;
and
Whereas, this program would create and fund the Federal Bank for
Infrastructure Modernization from
a portion of securities currently
held by the Federal Reserve and
would permit cities to use the
funds to improve schools, roadways
and bridges, water systems and
other infrastructure improvements;
and

May 16, 2001
Whereas, the American Society for
Civil Engineers estimates the United States needs $1.3 trillion in infrastructure improvements over the
next five years; and
Whereas, the program advocated
by Congressmen Kucinich and LaTourette would enable cities to
effectuate certain needed infrastructure improvements, including the
provision that 20% of loan funds
must be spent on school improvements; and
Whereas, H.R. 1564 would require
the use of domestic steel, thereby
benefiting the economy as well as
the domestic steel industry since
most infrastructure projects require
the use of steel; and
Whereas, this Council urges Congress to pass H.R. 1564; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the passage of H.R. 1564, creating and funding the Federal Bank for Infrastructure
Modernization
for
purposes of funding state and local
infrastructure projects.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby requested to transmit a copy of
this resolution to President George
W. Bush, Speaker of the House of
Representatives Dennis Hastert, U.S.
Representatives Dennis J. Kucinich
and Steven C. LaTourette.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Res. No. 863-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution expressing concern about the cost of home
and automobile insurance premiums that residents of Cleveland
must pay and stating Council’s
intention to hold hearings to determine ways in which such rates can
be lowered.
Whereas, residents of Cleveland
are often subjected to higher costs
to secure home and automobile
insurance than residents living in
surrounding suburban communities;
and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland is deeply concerned
that our residents are being subjected unfairly to these increased
costs; and
Whereas, it is the intention of this
Council to research and hold hearings on the issue of increased insurance costs for our residents and to
seek the assistance of Director of
Insurance for the State of Ohio, Lee
Covington, to determine methods for

The City Record
lowering insurance rates for residents of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland is concerned about
the high premiums that residents of
Cleveland must pay to secure home
and automobile insurance in comparison to our suburban neighbors
and intends to hold hearings to
determine ways in which such rates
can be lowered.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to Lee Covington, Director of Insurance for the
State of Ohio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Res. No. 864-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio General Assembly and the
Ohio Secretary of State to conduct a
comprehensive study of election procedures and election-related issues
in the State of Ohio and urging the
Ohio General Assembly to enact a
comprehensive package of voting
reforms, including a voter education
program.
Whereas, it is imperative in a
democracy that there be unqualified
confidence in election procedures
and voting systems; and
Whereas, it is also imperative that
the process of exercising one’s constitutionally protected right of the
franchise be as problem-free and
voter-friendly as humanly possible
to effect an outcome which is accurate and untainted; and
Whereas, in the last presidential
election in the State of Ohio, and
throughout many other states, thousands of ballots were not counted
due to overvotes by confused voters;
and
Whereas, this Council has previously, in Resolution No. 2125-2000,
adopted March 19, 2001, urged the
General Assembly of the State of
Ohio to abolish the “five minute
rule” as set forth in Ohio Revised
Code section 3503.23 which prohibits
voters from occupying a voting compartment or voting machine for
more than five minutes when other
voters are waiting to occupy them;
and
Whereas, Resolution No. 2125-2000
also urged the state legislators and
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Elections to prohibit the use of
“butterfly” ballots in the State of
Ohio; and

943

25
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland urges the Ohio
General Assembly and the Ohio Secretary of State to conduct a comprehensive study of election procedures, voting systems and electionrelated issues in the State of Ohio
which impact on the fairness and/or
accuracy of the vote; and that the
Ohio General Assembly enact a comprehensive
package
of
voting
reforms needed to correct problems
identified in the existing patchwork
of election procedures.
Section 2. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland urges the Ohio
General Assembly and the Ohio Secretary
of
State
to
institute
a
statewide voter education program
to address and remedy issues identified in the election study requested by the aforementioned Section 1.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to the
Cuyahoga County delegation to the
Ohio General Assembly, Ohio Secretary of State Kenneth Blackwell,
and Governor Robert Taft.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman and Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1485-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924 relating to responsibilities
of property owners abutting the harbor.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control,
Public
Safety,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation,
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert the following new whereas clauses before the existing one to
read as follows:
“Whereas, the Flats area of Cleveland provides a unique entertainment area with restaurants, clubs
and public spaces along the Cuyahoga River; and
Whereas, there is frequently a
high concentration of people in this
area in the day and evenings; and”.
2. In Section 1, at Section 573.10,
strike divisions (b) and (c) in their
entirety and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
“(b) No later than May 31, 2001,
every
owner
of
any
property,

26
whether improved or not, abutting
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge and
every owner of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting the
Cuyahoga River or Old River, where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore, shall install and maintain
at least one ladder facilitating
access from the river to the shore
per one hundred fifty linear feet
(150') of property along the shoreline, but no less than one ladder per
property. Owners of property on the
portion of Whiskey Island that
abuts the Cuyahoga River south of
the Norfolk Southern Bridge where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore are excluded from the
above requirement, except for owners of property abutting the river on
which alcohol is sold. The bottom
of the ladder shall reach a depth of
two feet (2') below the mean low
water level, which is five hundred
and sixty nine and two-tenths feet
(569.2') above sea level. The top of
the ladder shall terminate no less
than one foot (1') above the mean
high water level, which is five hundred and seventy-four and threetenths feet (574.3') above sea level,
and shall be designed to facilitate
safe egress to the shore. The ladders
shall be constructed of durable,
marine compatible materials.
All
required permits shall be obtained
for installation of the ladders and a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall
be obtained from the City.
The
review process for the Certificate of
Appropriateness
shall
include
review of the design of the ladders
by the City Planning Commission
and the Division of Building and
Housing. The City Planning Commission shall refer an application
for a Certificate of Appropriateness
to the local design review committee.
Upon receipt of a recommendation from the local design review
committee, the City Planning Commission shall review the application
at the next regularly scheduled City
Planning Commission meeting.
(c) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of property, whether
improved or not, abutting the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the Cuyahoga
River to the Center St. Bridge, every
occupant of any property on which
alcohol is sold abutting the Cuyahoga River or Old River, every occupant of property, whether improved
or not, abutting a deck that abuts
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge, and
every occupant of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting a
deck that abuts the Cuyahoga River
or Old River shall provide and
maintain at least one serviceable
thirty-inch
ring
life
buoy,
or
approved rescue line throwing bag,
per one hundred fifty linear feet
(150') of property along the shoreline. Occupants of property on the
portion of Whiskey Island that
abuts the Cuyahoga River, or that
abuts a deck that abuts the Cuyahoga River,
south of the Norfolk
Southern Bridge, are excluded from
the above requirement, except for
occupants of property abutting the
river, or abutting a deck that abuts
the river, on which alcohol is sold.
There shall be no less than one ring
buoy or approved rescue line-throwing bag per business establishment
located within the area described
above. At least seventy-five feet
(75') of suitable floating line shall

The City Record
be attached to each ring buoy or
line-throwing bag. The ring buoy or
line-throwing bag shall be accessible to the public at or near the bank
of the river.
(d) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of improved property abutting the Cuyahoga River or
Old River or abutting a deck that
abuts the Cuyahoga River or Old
River and containing a commercial
establishment selling alcohol shall
provide at least one twelve foot
(12') minimum length pole to be
used to retrieve persons or property
from the water and at least one
portable hand-held lantern of sufficient power to identify floating
objects in the water at a minimum
distance of fifty feet (50'). The pole
and portable light may be accessible to employees only.
(e) The denial of a Certificate of
Appropriateness may be appealed to
the Board of Zoning Appeals consistent with the Charter, ordinances
and rules applicable to that Board.
(f) There shall be a chart conspicuously posted to indicate which
individuals will be responsible for
monitoring compliance of this section.
(g) Whoever violates this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 2017-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the FAA TRACON and necessary
project components; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement; authorizing contracts
for the purchase of supplies, material, equipment and other items
required to make the improvement,
including rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing such
other agreements as are necessary;
and authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 12 to read as
follows:
“That the Director of Port Control
shall not enter into any contractual
obligations authorized herein until
the professional consultants who
designed
the
Improvement
have
been compensated for services rendered.”
2. Renumber existing “Section 12”
to new “Section 13”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 2266-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement Ordinance No. 716-99, passed
June 14, 1999, by adding additional
whereas clauses and new Sections 4
and 5; renumbering existing Section
4 to new Section 6; and amending
the first existing whereas clause,
relating to the sale of City-owned
property no longer needed for public use located in the City of Independence on Brecksville Road to the
City of Independence.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommend-

944

May 16, 2001
ed by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 8, after “clause”
insert “and Section 3”.
2. In Section 3, line 1 and in Section 4, line 1, after “clause” insert
“and Section 3”; and in Section 3,
line 2 and in Section 4, line 2, strike
“is” and insert in lieu thereof “are”.
3. In Section 3, at the end after
the text of the amended whereas
clause, insert the following:
“Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs and a provision requiring
that, if the City of Independence
chooses to sell the above-described
property, the City of Cleveland shall
have the right of first refusal at the
purchase price paid by the City of
Independence to the City of Cleveland. The deed shall further provide
that the City of Independence shall
have one year from the date of the
property transfer to complete the
public improvement.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 79-01.
By Councilmen Rybka, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio, Department of Administrative Services, for projects authorized
under the State Capital Appropriation Grant; determining the method
of making the public improvement
necessary to implement the grant;
authorizing said Director to enter
into contract for the making of such
public improvement; and authorizing said Director to employ professional services necessary to design
the public improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 8, strike “Hanna
Plaza” and insert in lieu thereof
“Perk Park.”.
2. In Section 4, lines 3 and 4, strike
“Hanna Plaza” and insert in lieu
thereof “Perk Park”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 382-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 141.39 thereof relating
to employment of licensed medical
physicians.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 539-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to

May 16, 2001
employ one or more professional
nursing services to provide professional services, for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 544-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various automotive and
truck parts and services, including
an inventory control service, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed
three years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 614-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to lease and sublease
certain property to Tower Press Ltd.
for a term not to exceed seventyseven years.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 7, at the end, add the
following new sentence: “The Lease
agreement authorized by this ordinance shall require that all persons
employed in the making of improvements to the parking lots located on
the parcels identified in Section 1
and in Section 5 be paid prevailing
wages.”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 642-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials
needed to install aviation communications
equipment,
including
removal of existing equipment, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $50,000.00 and
shall”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 654-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of messenger service, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 6, delete “two
years” and insert “one year”.
2. In Section 1, line 4, delete “two
years” and insert “one year” and in
lines 11 and 12, delete “two years”
and insert “one year”.

The City Record
3. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $25,000.00 and
shall”.
Amendments agreed to.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 173-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into a requirement contract without
competitive bidding with East Ohio
Gas Company for the purchase of
natural gas transportation services,
and authorizing the purchase by
requirement contract jointly or separately with the Cleveland Municipal School District of natural gas,
for the various divisions of City government and to contract with the
Cleveland Municipal School District
to implement the above.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 5, strike “East
Ohio Gas Company” and insert in
lieu thereof “Dominion East Ohio”;
in lines 9, 10 and 11, strike “jointly
or separately with the Cleveland
Municipal School District”; and in
lines 13, 14 and 15, strike “and to
contract with the Cleveland Municipal School District to implement the
above”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, strike “the
East Ohio Gas Company” and insert
in lieu thereof “Dominion East
Ohio”; and in line 5, strike “East
Ohio Gas Company” and insert in
lieu thereof “Dominion East Ohio”.
3. In Section 2, lines 4 and 5,
strike “either together with the
Cleveland Municipal School District
or separately for the City,”; strike
lines 10 through 21 in their entirety
and insert in lieu thereof “the various divisions of City government”.
4. In Section 2, line 7, strike “the
East Ohio Gas Company” and insert
in lieu thereof “Dominion East Ohio”.
5. Strike Section 3 in its entirety.
6. Renumber existing “Section 4”
and “Section 5” to new “Section 3”
and “Section 4”, respectively.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 647-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with ParkWorks, Inc. to provide an Adult Basic Landscaping
Training Program in order to carry
out the public purpose of providing
job training through the use of
Ward
15
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.

945

27
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 180-01.
By Councilmen Brady, Britt Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White and Willis.
An emergency resolution declaring this Council’s support for the
Civilian Conservation Corps and further declaring this Council’s intention to assist the Civilian Conservation Corps in restoring funding so
that the program may continue in
Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Public Parks, Property and Recreation,
Legislation, Finance.
Res. No. 315-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency resolution supporting the introduction and passage of
legislation to provide tax benefits to
qualifying public utilities, corporations and entities who contribute to
certified
neighborhood
assistance
projects.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1972-2000.
By Councilman Cintron.
An ordinance to change the zoning of lands on the northeasterly
corner of Columbus Road, N.W. and
Gould Ct., N.W. (vacated) (Map
Change No. 2022, Sheet No. 1)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
Ord. No. 2218-2000.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area, and Height Districts of lands
located on the north side of Willard
Avenue, N.W. between West 89
Street and West 93 Street. (Map
Change No. 2024, Sheet Nos. 1 & 2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
Ord. No. 2313-2000.
By Councilman Melena.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on both sides of Lorain Avenue
between West 67 Street and West 52
Street. (Map Change No. 2025, Sheet
Nos. 1 & 2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at lines 34, 36, and
37 of the legal description, strike
“52” and insert in lieu thereof “53”.
2. In Section 1, at line 35 of the
legal description, strike “northeasterly” and insert in lieu thereof
“southwesterly”.
3. In Section 1, strike lines 42
through 48 of the legal description
in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following: “of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
northerly line of Sublot 60 in the
Willard
Bernham
Allotment
as
recorded in Volume 1, Page 8 of the
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records;

The City Record

28
thence westerly along said northerly line of said Sublot No. 60 and
along its westerly extension to the
center line of West 55 Street; thence
southerly along said center line of
West 55 Street to its intersection
with the northeasterly extension of
a line located approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of said southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue; thence southwesterly along said northeasterly extension and along said line which is
parallel to and approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of said southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with the northerly line of Sublot No.
163 in the Janis Purdy Allotment as
recorded in Volume 1, Page 45 of the
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records,
thence westerly along said northerly line of said Sublot No. 163 and
along its westerly extension to the
center line of West 58 Street; thence
southerly along said center line of
West 58 Street to its intersection
with the”.
Amendments agreed to.

Inc. and Cutler Hammer for the purchase of computer-based distributed
control systems; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire such interests in
real property as are necessary to
make the public improvement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.

SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED

Ord. No. 85-01.
By Councilman Westbrook (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Cudell Improvement, Inc. to encroach into the rightof-way of Detroit Avenue between
West 110th and West 117th Streets
with approximately nineteen (19)
banners to be attached to CPP utility poles (by separate permission)
for an on-going banner program for
the Detroit Business District.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.

Ord. No. 1689-2000.
By Councilman Coats.
An
ordinance
to
establish
a
Planned Unit Development Overlay
District (PUD) and approve the corresponding Planned Unit Development project on properties located
on the west side of Quilliams Road
from the City boundary line north to
9 Mile Creek (Map Change No. 2019,
Sheet No. 7)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Councilwoman Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 870-2000.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 2015-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing,
relocating and constructing certain
NASA facilities in order to permit
the construction of Runway 5L/23R;
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contracts for
the making of such improvement;
authorizing contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and other items required to
make the improvement, including
rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement;
authorizing contracts with Siemens,

Ord. No. 27-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a project agreement with MRN Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership for the acquisition,
clearance and redevelopment of certain lands in the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan Area.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.

Ord. No. 444-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a First Amendment to Contract No. 56401 with
Kamms Corners Development Corporation to provide additional neighborhood revitalization activities.
Motion by Councilman Patmon to
amend Ordinance No. 444-01 as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, strike “14
SF 206” and insert in lieu thereof “14
SF026”.
Ordinance read as the second
reading thereof and laid over for
further and final action.
Ord. No. 538-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for a grant from the Minority
Health Commission for the Diabetes
Action Plan Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 540-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of animal trapping services,
for the Division of Environment,
Department of Public Health.

946

May 16, 2001
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 541-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency for financial assistance for
the operation of the Division of
Environment; and authorizing said
Director to enter into contracts for
the purchase of service and equipment necessary to implement the
program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 613-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for the 2001 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging Grant.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Ord. No. 615-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio Department of Development to conduct the
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program and to enter into contract with various organizations,
individual landlords, tenants and
contractors for the purpose of providing weatherization assistance to
low-income City residents through
the
State
Home
Weatherization
Assistance Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 140-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution requiring the laying, re-laying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons,
curbs, gutters and/or castings on
certain streets and any associated
corner properties herein named in
the City of Cleveland.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
Res. No. 317-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency resolution supporting the efforts of the Cleveland
Restoration Society, the Downtown
Cleveland Partnership, and Downtown Ohio, Inc. in preparing a proposal, for submission to members of
the Ohio State Legislature, to provide a historic property rehabilitation tax credit for the renovation
and maintenance of historic property.

The City Record

May 16, 2001
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Gordon.
Absent: Council Member Britt.
MOTION
By Council Member Cintron and
seconded by Council Member Patmon and unanimously carried that
the absence of Council Member
Patricia J. Britt be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 8:55
p.m. to meet Monday, May 21, 2001
at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1485-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924 relating to responsibilities
of property owners abutting the harbor.
Whereas, the Flats area of Cleveland provides a unique entertainment area with restaurants, clubs
and public spaces along the Cuyahoga River; and
Whereas, there is frequently a
high concentration of people in this
area in the day and evenings; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 573.10 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as by enacting Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 573.10 Responsibilities of
Abutting Property Owners
(a) Every owner or occupant of
premises abutting on the harbor
shall at all times keep the wharves
and docks on the premises in good
repair and safe condition. Whoever
violates this section shall be held
liable for all damages to persons or
property by reason of such unsafe
conditions or wharves and docks.
(b) No later than May 31, 2001,
every
owner
of
any
property,
whether improved or not, abutting
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge and
every owner of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting the

Cuyahoga River or Old River, where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore, shall install and maintain
at least one ladder facilitating
access from the river to the shore
per one hundred fifty linear feet
(150') of property along the shoreline, but no less than one ladder per
property. Owners of property on the
portion of Whiskey Island that
abuts the Cuyahoga River south of
the Norfolk Southern Bridge where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore are excluded from the
above requirement, except for owners of property abutting the river on
which alcohol is sold. The bottom
of the ladder shall reach a depth of
two feet (2') below the mean low
water level, which is five hundred
and sixty nine and two-tenths feet
(569.2') above sea level. The top of
the ladder shall terminate no less
than one foot (1') above the mean
high water level, which is five hundred and seventy-four and threetenths feet (574.3') above sea level,
and shall be designed to facilitate
safe egress to the shore. The ladders shall be constructed of durable,
marine compatible materials.
All
required permits shall be obtained
for installation of the ladders and a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall
be obtained from the City.
The
review process for the Certificate of
Appropriateness
shall
include
review of the design of the ladders
by the City Planning Commission
and the Division of Building and
Housing.
The City Planning Commission shall refer an application
for a Certificate of Appropriateness
to the local design review committee.
Upon receipt of a recommendation from the local design review
committee, the City Planning Commission shall review the application
at the next regularly scheduled City
Planning Commission meeting.
(c) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of property, whether
improved or not, abutting the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the Cuyahoga
River to the Center St. Bridge, every
occupant of any property on which
alcohol is sold abutting the Cuyahoga River or Old River, every occupant of property, whether improved
or not, abutting a deck that abuts
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge, and
every occupant of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting a
deck that abuts the Cuyahoga River
or Old River shall provide and maintain at least one serviceable thirtyinch ring life buoy, or approved rescue line throwing bag, per one hundred fifty linear feet (150') of property along the shoreline. Occupants
of
property
on
the
portion
of
Whiskey Island that abuts the Cuyahoga River, or that abuts a deck
that abuts the Cuyahoga River,
south
of
the
Norfolk
Southern
Bridge, are excluded from the above
requirement, except for occupants of
property abutting the river, or abutting a deck that abuts the river, on
which alcohol is sold. There shall
be no less than one ring buoy or
approved rescue line-throwing bag
per business establishment located
within the area described above. At
least seventy-five feet (75') of suitable floating line shall be attached
to each ring buoy or line-throwing
bag.
The ring buoy or line-throw-

947

29
ing bag shall be accessible to the
public at or near the bank of the
river.
(d) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of improved property abutting the Cuyahoga River or
Old River or abutting a deck that
abuts the Cuyahoga River or Old
River and containing a commercial
establishment selling alcohol shall
provide at least one twelve foot
(12') minimum length pole to be
used to retrieve persons or property
from the water and at least one
portable hand-held lantern of sufficient power to identify floating
objects in the water at a minimum
distance of fifty feet (50').
The
pole and portable light may be
accessible to employees only.
(e) The denial of a Certificate of
Appropriateness may be appealed to
the Board of Zoning Appeals consistent with the Charter, ordinances
and rules applicable to that Board.
(f) There shall be a chart conspicuously posted to indicate which
individuals will be responsible for
monitoring compliance of this section.
(g) Whoever violates this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
Section 2. That existing Section
573.10 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as by enacting Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed
September 22, 1924 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1972-2000.
By Councilman Cintron.
An ordinance to change the zoning of lands on the northeasterly
corner of Columbus Road, N.W. and
Gould Ct., N.W. (vacated) (Map
Change No. 2022, Sheet No. 1)
Ord. No. 2017-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the FAA TRACON and necessary
project components; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement; authorizing contracts
for the purchase of supplies, material, equipment and other items
required to make the improvement,
including rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing such
other agreements as are necessary;
and authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing the FAA TRACON and its necessary appurtenances (“Improvement”).
Section 2. The Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contracts for the making

30
of the Improvement, by contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidders, after competitive bidding
for a gross price, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts in accordance with the
Charter and Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
such requirements not to exceed two
years, for each and all of the necessary items of supplies, material,
equipment and other items required
to make the Improvement, including
the rental of such items, and labor
and materials to install and maintain any and all of the foregoing
items, to be purchased or procured
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such a manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with federal,
state, and local governmental or regulatory entities or other public
authorities necessary and to pay or
reimburse
directly
related
costs
incurred by such entities for the
purpose of making the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and pay for such permits
and licenses required by any regulatory entity or other public authority for making of the Improvement.
Section 6. That the cost of any
requirement contracts entered into
pursuant to this ordinance shall be
charged against the proper account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon, which purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That, as a condition
precedent to entering into any contracts or agreements contemplated to
make the Improvement, the Department of Port Control shall be in
receipt
of
all
necessary
federal
approvals, including the Record of
Decision
for
the
Environmental
Impact Statement, and other such regulatory approvals as may be required.
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control shall file a copy of all
contracts, permits, licenses or agreements entered into by the City as
authorized by this ordinance with
the Clerk of Council, the President
of Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee

The City Record
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee within five (5) business
days of execution by the City.
Section 9. That the cost of any
expenditures
authorized
by
this
ordinance for any contract, including all public improvements, standard purchases and requirements
contracts, shall not exceed a total
amount of $3,802,104.00 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges and the fund
and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue bonds, federal grants,
state grants, and local grants issued
for the purpose of the Improvement
authorized herein. In the event that
the Improvement exceeds or is anticipated to exceed the amount specified for each project component listed herein, the Director of Port Control shall notify the President of
Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee,
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee of the need for a subsidiary agreement in accordance
with Section 185.44 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, and shall immediately
proceed to secure the necessary legislative approval from Cleveland
City Council. (8295)
Section 10. That, in accordance
with federal law and to the extent
permitted by federal law, all construction contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance shall establish a goal of hiring at least thirty
percent (30%) MBE, ten percent
(10%)
FBE,
twenty-five
percent
(25%) minority workforce, seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) female
workforce and forty percent (40%)
City residents. In seeking to obtain
such goal, all contractors shall utilize best efforts.
Section 11. That the Director of
Port Control shall provide detailed
bimonthly written reports to the
President of Council, the Chairman
of the Aviation and Transportation
Committee, and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee of all expenditures made pursuant to this ordinance, including the source of funds
for such expenditures. The Director
of Port Control shall also provide to
the aforementioned Council representatives detailed bimonthly written reports of the MBE/FBE goals
and residency and workforce goals
set forth herein.
Section 12. That the Director of
Port Control shall not enter into any
contractual obligations authorized
herein until the professional consultants who designed the Improvement have been compensated for
services rendered.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2218-2000.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area, and Height Districts of lands
located on the north side of Willard
Avenue, N.W. between West 89
Street and West 93 Street. (Map
Change No. 2024, Sheet Nos. 1 & 2)

948

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 2266-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement Ordinance No. 716-99, passed
June 14, 1999, by adding additional
whereas clauses and new Sections 4
and 5; renumbering existing Section
4 to new Section 6; and amending
the first existing whereas clause
and Section 3, relating to the sale of
City-owned property no longer needed for public use located in the City
of
Independence
on
Brecksville
Road to the City of Independence.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 71699, passed June 14, 1999, is hereby
supplemented by adding the following additional whereas clauses following the first one and by adding
new Sections 4 and 5, to read,
respectively, as follows:
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
entered into an Indenture of Mortgage agreement with National City
Bank, known as the Trustee, for the
issuance of Waterworks Improvement First Mortgage Revenue Bonds
on November 1, 1977, as amended
and supplemented from time to time;
and
Whereas, Article VII of the Indenture
of
Mortgage
provides
the
method
of
requesting
from
the
Trustee a release of real property
from the operation and lien of the
Indenture of the Indenture of Mortgage; and
Section 4. That the City of Cleveland hereby requests pursuant to
Article VII of the Indenture of Mortgage
that
National
City
Bank,
Trustee, release from the operation
and lien of that Mortgage the abovedescribed property.
Section 5. That the Directors of
Public Utilities and Finance are
authorized to execute documents
and sign such instruments and take
such actions as may be requested by
the Trustee to secure the release of
the above-described property.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 716-99, passed June
14, 1999, is hereby renumbered to
new “Section 6.”
Section 3. That the first existing
whereas clause and Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 716-99, passed June 14,
1999, are hereby amended to read as
follows:
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities has requested the sale of
City-owned property no longer needed for public use and located on
Brecksville Road in the City of Independence; and
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs and a provision requiring
that, if the City of Independence
chooses to sell the above-described
property, the City of Cleveland shall
have the right of first refusal at the

May 16, 2001
purchase price paid by the City of
Independence to the City of Cleveland. The deed shall further provide
that the City of Independence shall
have one year from the date of the
property transfer to complete the
public improvement.
Section 4. That the first existing
whereas clause and Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 716-99, passed June 14,
1999, are hereby repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2313-2000.
By Councilman Melena.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on both sides of Lorain Avenue
between West 67 Street and West 52
Street. (Map Change No. 2025, Sheet
Nos. 1 & 2)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and
Height Districts of lands bounded
and described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lorain Avenue
and the southeasterly extension of
the center line of West 68 Place;
thence northwesterly along said
southeasterly extension and along
said center line of West 68 Place to
its intersection with the center line
of Colgate Court, N.W.; thence northeasterly and easterly along said center line of Colgate Court, N.W. and
along its easterly extension to the
center line of West 65 Street; thence
northerly along said center line of
West 65 Street to its intersection
with the westerly extension of the
center line of Aspen Court, N.W.;
thence easterly along said westerly
extension and easterly and northeasterly along said center line of
Aspen Court, N.W. continuing northeasterly along said center line of
Aspen Court, N.W.crossing West 61
Street and West 58 Street to its
intersection with the southwesterly
line of Sublot No. 19 in the A. M.
Kittsteiner Subdivision as recorded
in Volume 4, Page 49 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence
southeasterly along said southwesterly line of said Sublot No. 19 to its
intersection with the southeasterly
line thereof; thence northeasterly
along said southeasterly line of said
Sublot No. 19 and along its northeasterly extension to the center line
of West 57 Street; thence northwesterly along said center line of
West 57 Street to its intersection
with the southwesterly extension of
the southeasterly line of Sublot No.
2 in the Wissing Allotment No. 2 as
recorded in Volume 39, Page 3 of the
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records;
thence
northeasterly
along
said
southwesterly extension and along
said
southeasterly
line
of
said
Sublot No. 2 to its intersection with
the easterly line thereof; thence
northerly along said easterly line of
said Sublot No. 2 to its intersection
with the southwesterly extension of
the southeasterly line of Sublot No.
202 in the Benedict & Root Allotment as recorded in Volume 1, Page
13 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records; thence northeasterly along
said southwesterly extension and
northeasterly and easterly along

The City Record
said
southeasterly
line
of
said
Sublot No. 202 and along its easterly extension to the center line of
West 54 Street; thence northerly
along said center line of West 54
Street to its intersection with the
southwesterly extension of a line
located one hundred thirty two (132)
feet northwest of the northwesterly
line of Lorain Avenue; thence northeasterly along said southwesterly
extension and along said line which
is parallel to and one hundred thirty two (132) feet northwest of said
northwesterly line of Lorain Avenue
to its intersection with the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 157 in
said Benedict and Root Allotment;
thence
southeasterly
along
said
northeasterly line of said Sublot No.
157 to its intersection with a line
located approximately one hundred
seventeen (117) feet northwest of
the northwesterly line of Lorain
Avenue; thence easterly from this
point to the center line of West 53
Street; thence southerly along said
center line of West 53 Street to the
center line of Lorain Avenue; thence
southwesterly along said center line
of Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with the northerly extension of the
center line of West 53 Street; thence
southerly
along
said
northerly
extension and along said center line
of West 53 Street to its intersection
with the northeasterly extension of
a line located approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of the southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue; thence southwesterly along said northeasterly extension and along said line which is
parallel to and approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of said southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with the northerly line of Sublot 60
in the Willard Bernham Allotment
as recorded in Volume 1, Page 8 of
the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
thence westerly along said northerly line of said Sublot No. 60 and
along its westerly extension to the
center line of West 55 Street; thence
southerly along said center line of
West 55 Street to its intersection
with the northeasterly extension of
a line located approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of said southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue; thence southwesterly along said northeasterly extension and along said line which is
parallel to and approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of said southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with the northerly line of Sublot No.
163 in the Janis Purdy Allotment as
recorded in Volume 1, Page 45 of the
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records,
thence westerly along said northerly line of said Sublot No. 163 and
along its westerly extension to the
center line of West 58 Street; thence
southerly along said center line of
West 58 Street to its intersection
with the easterly extension of the
southerly line of Sublot No. 92 in the
James Purdy Allotment as recorded
in Volume 1, Page 45 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence
westerly along said easterly extension and along said southerly line
of said Sublot No. 92 and continuing
westerly along the southerly line of
Sublot No. 79 in said James Purdy
Allotment and along its westerly
extension to the center line of West
59 Street; thence southerly along
said center line of West 59 Street to
its intersection with the easterly
extension of the northerly line of
Sublot No. 7 in said James Purdy

949

31
Allotment; thence westerly along
said easterly extension and along
said northerly line of said Sublot No.
7 to its intersection with the westerly line thereof; thence southerly
along said westerly line of said
Sublot No. 7 to its intersection with
the northerly line of Sublot No. 2 in
the John and George Noderer Subdivision as recorded in Volume 4,
Page 61 of the Cuyahoga County
Map Records; thence westerly along
said northerly line of said Sublot No.
2 and along its westerly extension
to the center line of West 61 Street;
thence southerly along said center
line of West 61 Street to its intersection with the easterly extension
of a line located approximately two
hundred thirty two and five tenths
(232.5) feet north of the northerly
line of Schott Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along said easterly extension and along said line which is
parallel to and approximately two
hundred thirty two and five tenths
(232.5) feet north of said northerly
line of Schott Avenue, S.W. to the
intersection with the center line of
West 61 Place; thence northerly
along said center line of West 61
Place to its intersection with the
center line of Fanwell Court, S.W.;
thence westerly, southwesterly and
westerly along said center line of
Fanwell Court, S.W. and along its
westerly extension to the center line
of West 65 Street; thence southerly
along said center line of West 65
Street to its intersection with the
easterly extension of the southerly
line of Sublot No. 19 in the R.
Hineland Subdivision as recorded in
Volume 3, Page 11 of the Cuyahoga
County Map Records; thence westerly along said easterly extension and
along said southerly line of said
Sublot No. 19 to its intersection with
the westerly line thereof; thence
northerly along said westerly line of
said Sublot No. 19 to its intersection
with a line located approximately
one hundred thirty two (132) feet
southeast of said southeasterly line
of Lorain Avenue; thence southwesterly along said line which is
parallel to and approximately one
hundred thirty two (132) feet southeast of said southeasterly line of
Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with
the
southwesterly
line
of
Sublot No. 163 in the James M. Hoyt
Subdivision as recorded in Volume 3,
Page 37 of the Cuyahoga County
Map Records; thence northwesterly
along said southwesterly line of
said Sublot No. 163 and continuing
northwesterly along the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 162 in said
James M. Hoyt Subdivision and
along its northwesterly extension to
the center line of West 67 Street;
thence northwesterly along said center line of West 67 Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lorain Avenue; thence southwesterly along said center line of Lorain
Avenue to the place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same
are hereby changed to a Local
Retail Use District, a ‘C’ Area and
‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That said change designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2025, Sheet Nos. 1 and 2
and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the
office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for such purpose by the
City Planning Commission

32
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 79-01.
By Councilmen Rybka, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio, Department of Administrative Services, for projects authorized
under the State Capital Appropriation Grant; determining the method
of making the public improvement
necessary to implement the grant;
authorizing said Director to enter
into contract for the making of such
public improvement; and authorizing said Director to employ professional services necessary to design
the public improvement.
ªWhereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the amount of
$655,000, from the State of Ohio,
Department of Administrative Services, for the following projects
authorized under the State Capital
Appropriation Grant, which are set
forth in the award letter and according thereto: improving Rockefeller
Park Public Greenhouse; renovating
and improving Halloran Park; and
constructing site improvements to
Perk Park. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
they hereby are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the award letter for said grant.
Section 2. That the award letter
for said grant, File No. 79-01-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of renovating and improving
Halloran Park, for the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
That the Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
for the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, or such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 4. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing site improvements to Perk Park, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after com-

The City Record
petitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
That the Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
for the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, or such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of said improvements.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to employ by contract one or more consultants or one
or more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to design the public
improvements authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the cost of the public improvement and professional
services authorized herein shall be
paid from the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 382-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 141.39 thereof relating
to employment of licensed medical
physicians.
Ord. No. 444-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a First Amendment to Contract No. 56401 with
Kamms Corners Development Corporation to provide additional neighborhood revitalization activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

950

May 16, 2001
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56401
with Kamms Corners Development
Corporation to provide additional
comprehensive neighborhood revitalization activities and to increase the
amount of the contract by $57,650.58,
for a total of $263,717.30. Said
increase shall be paid from Fund
No. 14 SF 026, Request No. 36382.
Section 2. That this First Amendment
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law
and shall contain such provisions as
he deems necessary to protect the
public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 539-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
employ one or more professional
nursing services to provide professional services, for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health.
Ord. No. 544-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various automotive and
truck parts and services, including
an inventory control service, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed three years.
Ord. No. 614-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to lease and sublease
certain property to Tower Press Ltd.
for a term not to exceed seventyseven years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns a portion of a vacant lot located between East 19th Street and
East 21st Street and between the
Tower Press Building and the Third
District Police Station and the City
of Cleveland also leases a portion of
that same vacant lot from Cuyahoga
County pursuant to a Lease Agreement between the City of Cleveland
and Cuyahoga County executed on
December 14, 1978; and
Whereas, Tower Press, Ltd. is
undertaking the redevelopment of
the property known as the Tower
Press Building and such redevelopment will eliminate slum and blight
and create job opportunities in this
area of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, Tower Press, Ltd., has
proposed to lease said property
owned by the City and to sublease
said property leased to the City
from the County in connection with
the redevelopment of the Tower
Press Building to provide the redevelopment project the necessary
parking required for the redevelopment project; and

May 16, 2001
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public property, health and
safety in that the approval of this
ordinance is immediately necessary
to enable the redevelopment of the
Tower Press Building to be commenced at the earliest possible time,
thereby eliminating conditions menacing the public health and safety
of the citizens of the City of Cleveland and further creating economic
benefits for the City and its citizens,
and for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Tower
Press, Ltd. for the lease and sublease (“Lease”) of the following
described real property in connection with the redevelopment of the
Tower Press Building for the purpose of providing necessary and
adequate parking for the commercial and residential tenants of the
Building:
Tower Press
City of Cleveland Parcel
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublots
Nos. 125, 126, 127 and 128 in H.B.
Payne’s Allotment of Block “A” of
his subdivision of part of Original
10 Acre Lot Nos. 104, 105 and 106 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
H.B. Payne’s Allotment of Block “A”
in Volume 16 of Maps, Page 2 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Superior Avenue (formerly Superior Street) 132
feet wide, with the Easterly line of
East 19th Street (formerly Handy
Street), 50 feet wide, being also the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 121;
Thence South 00° 00' 11" East
along the Easterly line of East 19th
Street, a distance of 189.98 feet to
the Northwest corner of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed dated February 10, 1930 and
recorded in Volume 3964, Page 515
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records
and the Principal Place of Beginning
of
the
easement
herein
described;
Course No. 1: Thence North 89° 59'
49" East along the Northerly line of
said land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, a distance of 118.35 to the
Northeast corner thereof;
Course No. 2: Thence South 02° 09'
56" West along the Easterly line of
said land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland and the Westerly line of
land conveyed to The Board of
County
Commissioners
by
deed
dated October 3, 1929 and recorded
in Volume 3957, Page 398 of Cuyahoga County Records, a distance of
139.01 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: Thence North 88° 35'
31" West, a distance of 113.12 feet
to the Easterly line of said East
19th Street;
Course No. 4: Thence North 00° 00'
11" West along the Easterly line of
said East 19th Street, a distance of
136.12 feet to the place of beginning,
containing 15,916 square feet of land
according to a survey prepared by
McSteen & Associates, Inc., be the

The City Record
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways and easements.
Tower Press
County of Cuyahoga Parcel
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being all of Sublot
Nos. 143, 144, 145 and part of Sublots
Nos. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 142 and
146 in H.B. Payne’s Allotment of
Block “A” of his subdivision of a
part of Original 10 Acre lot Nos. 104,
105 and 106 as shown by the recorded plat of said H.B. Payne’s Allotment of Block “A” in Volume 16 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Superior Avenue (formerly Superior Street) 132
feet wide, with the Easterly line of
East 19th Street (formerly Handy
Street), 50 feet wide, being also the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 121;
Thence South 00° 00' 11" East
along the Easterly line of East 19th
Street, a distance of 175.10 feet to
the Northwest corner of land conveyed to The Board of County Commissioners by deed dated April 1,
1929 and recorded in Volume 3924,
Page 463 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records and the Principal Place of
Beginning of the easement herein
described;
Course No. 1: Thence North 88° 58’
56" East along the Northerly line of
said land conveyed to The Board of
County Commissioners, a distance of
284.26 feet to the Northeast corner
thereof also being the Westerly line
of East 21st Street, 66 feet wide;
Course No. 2: Thence South 02° 09'
56" West along the Westerly line of
said East 21st Street, a distance of
163.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: Thence North 88° 35'
31" West, a distance of 165.01 feet
to a point in the Westerly line of
land conveyed to The Board of
County
Commissioners
by
deed
dated October 3, 1929 and recorded
in Volume 3957, Page 398 of Cuyahoga of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Course No. 4: Thence North 02° 09'
56" East along the Westerly line of
the aforementioned land conveyed to
The Board of County Commissioners
and the Easterly line of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed dated February 10, 1930 and
recorded in Volume 3964, Page 515
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
a distance of 139.01 feet to the
Northeasterly corner of said land
conveyed to the City of Cleveland;
Course No. 5: Thence South 89° 59'
49" West along the Northerly line of
said land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, a distance of 118.35 feet
to the Northwesterly corner thereof
also being the Easterly line of East
19th Street;
Course No. 6: Thence North 00° 00'
11" West along the Easterly line of
said East 19th Street, a distance of
14.88 feet to the place of beginning,
containing 28,208 square feet of land
according to a survey prepared by
McSteen & Associates, Inc., be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways and easements.
Section 2. That the term of the
Lease authorized by Section 1 shall
not exceed seventy-seven (77) years.
Section
3.
That
the
property
described herein shall be leased and
subleased at a total rental of $1.00
per year.
Section 4. That the Lease may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased and sub-

951

33
leased
premises
subject
to
the
approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That a condition of the
lease agreement authorized herein
shall be that Tower Press Ltd. shall
make certain improvements to the
following property described as follows:
Cleveland Police (3rd District)
from
County of Cuyahoga
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublots
Nos. 128, 129, 130, 140, 141, and 142
in H.B. Payne’s Allotment of Block
“A” of his subdivision of part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 104, 105
and 106 as shown by the recorded
plat of said H.B. Payne’s Allotment
of Block “A” in Volume 16 of Maps,
Page
2
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Superior Avenue (formerly Superior Street) 132
feet wide, with the Easterly line of
East 19th Street (formerly Handy
Street), 50 feet wide, being also the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 121;
Thence South 00° 00' 11" East
along the Easterly line of East 19th
Street, a distance of 175.10 feet to
the Northwest corner of land conveyed to The Board of County Commissioners by deed dated April 1,
1929 and recorded in Volume 3924,
Page 463 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Thence North 88° 58' 56" East
along the Northerly line of said land
conveyed to The Board of County
Commissioners, a distance of 284.26
to the Northeast corner thereof also
being the Westerly line of East 21st
Street, 66 feet wide;
Thence South 02° 09' 56" West
along the Westerly line of said East
21st Street, a distance of 163.00 feet
to a point and the Principal Place
of Beginning of the parcel of land
herein described;
Course No. 1: Thence continuing
South 02° 09' 56" West along the
Westerly line of said East 21st
Street, a distance of 63.29 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to the Board of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County by
deed dated October 3, 1929 and
recorded in Volume 3957, Page 398
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Course No. 2: Thence North 87° 50'
04" West along the Southerly line of
said land conveyed to the Board of
County Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County, a distance 165.00 feet to the
Southwesterly corner thereof;
Course No. 3: Thence North 02° 09'
56" East along the Westerly line of
said land conveyed to the Board of
County Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County, a distance 61.11 feet to a
point;
Course No. 4: Thence South 88° 35'
31" East, a distance of 165.01 feet to
the place of beginning, containing
10,263 square feet of land according
to a survey prepared by McSteen &
Associates, Inc. be the same more or
less but subject to all legal highways and easements.
Cleveland Police (3rd District)
from
City of Cleveland
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being all of Sublots
Nos. 131 and 139 and part of Sublots
Nos. 128, 129, 130, 132, 138, and 140
in H.B. Payne’s Allotment of Block

34
“A” of his subdivision of part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 104, 105
and 106 as shown by the recorded
plat of said H.B. Payne’s Allotment
of Block “A” in Volume 16 of Maps,
Page
2
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the
Southerly
line
of
Superior
Avenue (formerly Superior Street)
132 feet wide, with the Easterly line
of East 19th Street (formerly Handy
Street), 50 feet wide, being also the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 121;
Thence South 00° 00' 11" East
along the Easterly line of East 19th
Street, a distance of 326.10 feet to a
point and the Principal Place of
Beginning of the parcel of land
herein described;
Course No. 1: Thence South 88° 35'
31" East, a distance of 113.12 feet to
a point in the Westerly line of land
conveyed to the Board of County
Commissioners of Cuyahoga County
by deed dated October 3, 1929 and
recorded in Volume 3957, Page 398
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Course No. 2: Thence South 02° 09'
56" West along the said Westerly
line of land conveyed to the Board
of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County, a distance of 61.11 feet
to the Southwesterly corner thereof;
Course No. 3: Thence South 87° 50'
04" East along the Southerly line of
said land conveyed to the Board of
County Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County, a distance 165.00 feet to the
Southeasterly corner thereof also
being the Westerly line of East 21st
Street, 66 feet wide;
Course No. 4: Thence South 02° 09'
56" West along the Westerly line of
said East 21st Street, a distance of
83.71 feet to a point;
Course No. 5: Thence North 87° 44'
43" West, a distance of 272.70 feet
to a point in the Easterly line of
said East 19th Street;
Course No. 6: Thence North 00° 00'
11" West along the Easterly line of
said East 19th Street, a distance of
143.00 feet to the place of beginning,
containing 29,661 square feet of land
according to a survey prepared by
McSteen & Associates, Inc., be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways and easements.
Such property will be used as a
parking lot for the Third District
Police Station. Lessee shall complete
these improvements within thirty
(30) days of completion of the
improvements to the leased and subleased premises. Improvements to
the leased and subleased premises
shall be completed prior to the
issuance of a temporary Certificate
of Occupancy or within thirty-six
(36) months from the execution of
the Lease. Such improvements shall
be completed to the City’s specifications and approval.
Section 6. That the Lease authorized by this ordinance shall provide
that all costs of construction and
maintenance
shall
be
paid
by
Lessee, and that the Lessee shall
provide public liability insurance on
the property naming the City as an
additional insured.
Section 7. That the Lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such authorized terms,
conditions and restrictions as are
required to protect the interests of
the City.
The Lease agreement
authorized by this ordinance shall
require that all persons employed in
the making of improvements to the
parking lots located on the parcels
identified in Section 1 and in Section
5 be paid prevailing wages.

The City Record
Section 8. That the Mayor, the
Director of Community Development
and the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such other documents and certificates, and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 642-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials
needed to install aviation communications
equipment,
including
removal of existing equipment, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor
and
materials
needed
to
install
aviation
communications
equipment, including removal of
existing equipment, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two years may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $50,000.00
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
30925)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

952

May 16, 2001
Ord. No. 654-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of messenger service, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of messenger service, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
one year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $25,000.00
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
3083)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 180-01.
By Councilmen Brady, Britt Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Patmon, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White and Willis.
An emergency resolution declaring this Council’s support for the
Civilian Conservation Corps and further declaring this Council’s intention to assist the Civilian Conservation Corps in restoring funding so
that the program may continue in
Cleveland.
Res. No. 315-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency resolution supporting the introduction and passage of
legislation to provide tax benefits to
qualifying public utilities, corporations and entities who contribute to
certified
neighborhood
assistance
projects.

May 16, 2001
BOARD OF CONTROL
May 10, 2001
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Thursday, May 10, 2001, at
11:00 a.m. with Mayor White presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Directors
Carter, Clark, Konicek, Acting Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 304-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
conditional bid of Smeal Fire Apparatus Co., except for such terms as
are unacceptable to the Director of
Law, for an estimated quantity of
aerial ladder platform vehicles for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
March 30, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 904-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 7, 2000, and
Ordinance No. 98-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
January 22, 2001, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Six Hundred Forty-Eight
Thousand Nine Hundred Ninety-Five
and 00/100 Dollars ($648,995.00) (2%
Net-30 Days), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29625
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Six Hundred Forty-Eight Thousand Nine
Hundred Ninety-Five and 00/100 Dollars ($648,995.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 305-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Domestic & Foreign Auto Body,
Inc. for an estimated hours of dump
body rehabilitation for the various
divisions of City government, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a con-

The City Record

35

tract, received on April 6, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1685-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on October
30, 2000, and Ordinance No. 99-01,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland
on
January
22,
2001,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to FortyFive Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($45,000.00) (2%-20 Days), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is hereby requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29630
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of FortyFive Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($45,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 306-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Utilicon Corporation
for the public improvement of cleaning and cement mortar lining of distribution mains in areas 2001-A
(base bid items 1-18, including 10%
contingency allowance) for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on April 11, 2001,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2201-2000, passed February
26, 2001, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Three Million Five Hundred Twenty-Seven Thousand Two
Hundred Sixty Dollars ($3,527,260.00),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter into contract
for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Utilicon Corporation, for the abovementioned public improvement is
hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

RMC, Inc.

MBE $517,500.00/15%

Dan Ray

MBE $175,000.00 / 5%

Choice Construction
F B E $175,000.00 / 5%
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

953

Resolution No. 307-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. for the public improvement of cleaning and cement
mortar lining of distribution mains
in areas 2001 - B (base bid items 1-18,
including 10% contingency allowance) for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, received on April 12, 2001, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 22012000, passed February 26, 2001, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Two Million Nine Hundred Forty-Four Thousand Six Hundred Fifty-Six Dollars
($2,944,656.00), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Public
Utilities is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control, of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Company, Inc., for
the above-mentioned public improvement is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
RMC, Inc.

WORK

MBE $618,378.00/21%

Rockport Construction and
Materials
FBE $147,233.00 / 5%
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 308-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of LJI Construction Company, Inc. for an estimated quantity of
labor and materials to repair or
replace fire hydrants (all items) for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on the 2nd day of May,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 2100-2000, passed January 29, 2001, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Five Hundred Sixty-Six
Thousand Six Hundred Fifty-Two
Dollars
($566,652.00),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby requested
to enter into requirement contract
for such commodities, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 33938
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($250,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of

The City Record

36
the following subcontractor by LJI
Construction Company, Inc., for the
contract authorized herein hereby is
approved:

Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

NAME

Resolution No. 311-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Whereas, The Cleveland Municipal School District wishes to utilize
the Banquet Room and West Concourse at Burke Lakefront Airport
(the “Airport”) for a meet and greet
reception (the “Event”) to be held
on May 16, 2001; and
Whereas, the City is willing to
grant
The
Cleveland
Municipal
School District the privilege, permit
and license to conduct the Event at
the Airport; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.04 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of the
Department of Port Control is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement (the “Agreement”) granting
The Cleveland Municipal School District
the
privilege,
permit
and
license to conduct the Event in the
Banquet Room and West Concourse
at Burke Lakefront Airport from
5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on May 16, 2001,
and to use and occupy the room for
such period of time before the Event
as necessary for preparation. The
Cleveland Municipal School District
shall pay the City a $450.00 fee for
the Event, shall reimburse the City
for the cost of two (2) City employees to perform custodial and building maintenance work related to the
conduct of the Event, shall arrange
for the conduct of the Event and
such other activities approved as
appropriate and incidental to the
Event, and shall be responsible at
its expense for providing traffic control, security and clean up.
Be it further resolved that the
Agreement authorized hereby shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

MBE/FBE

A & L Sewer Co., Inc.
MBE $70,831.00/12%
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 309-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Board of Control Resolution No. 736-00, adopted October 25,
2000, pursuant to Ordinance No. 15772000 passed October 18, 2000, approving North Bay Construction, Inc., for
the public improvement of the Centralized Deicing Facility, Phase 1A,
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, the employment of the following subcontractors for the above-mentioned public
improvement
project
is
hereby
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
DESCRIPTION
Comm Steel, Inc.

Steel

FB & S Masonry

Masonry

Mike McGarry & Sons

Painting

The Geist Co.
Gateway Tanks
Kalwell Corp.

Metal Roof
Holding Tanks
Skylights &
Translucent
Wall Panels

Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 310-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Board of Control Resolution No. 8-01, adopted January 10,
2001, pursuant to Ordinance Nos. 5522000, passed on June 19, 2000, and
1234-2000, passed on July 17, 2000,
approving Middough & Associates,
Inc. for professional engineering
design services for the design of
NASA South 40 PER facilities for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, the employment of the
following
subconsultant
for
the
above-mentioned
engineering
services is hereby approved:
SUBCONSULTANTS

SERVICES

Hardlines Design Company
Recordation & Mitigation
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,

Resolution No. 312-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that the bid
of US Filter Distribution Group, Inc.,
for the following: Brookpark Road
Waterline Valves Purchase C205-3.2
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, received on
the 2nd day of May, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
552-2000, passed June 19th, 2000 and
Ordinance No. 1234-2000, passed July
17th, 2000 which on the basis of the
order quantity would amount to
$432,800.00, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Port Control is
hereby requested to enter into contract for such items.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

954

May 16, 2001
Resolution No. 313-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Perk Company for the
public improvement of replacement
of existing Tug Road for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control received on the 25th day of
April 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2049-99, passed
June 12, 2000, upon a unit basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of Four Hundred Seventy
Six Thousand Four Hundred Seventy-One Dollars and Sixty Cents,
($476,471.60), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Port Control
is hereby authorized to enter into
contract for said improvement with
said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the following
subcontractors of Perk Company are
hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
SUBCONTRACT AMOUNT
McTech, d.b.a. Tech
Ready Mix
MBE 51% $244,312.00
Cuyahoga Supply &
Tool
FBE 01% $5,600.00
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 314-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Kenmore Construction Co., Inc.
for an estimated quantity of 120,000
tons of asphalt concrete, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service, for the period of 1
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
April 12, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1679-2000,
passed November 13, 2000, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Million Three
Hundred Thirty Eight Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars ($2,338,000), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 30068
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Million
and
no/100
Dollars
($1,000.000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Kenmore
Construction
Company
Inc., for the hauling of aggregate, if
needed, is hereby approved:

May 16, 2001
Granger Trucking
MBE — $350,700 — 15%
LT Services
FBE — $116,900 — 5%
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 315-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on November 1, 2000 for the
Movable Shelving and Filing Systems, for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Service, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1198-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on August
7, 2001, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 316-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 150-01,
adopted March 14, 2001, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 12641999, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 11,
1999, this Board of Control approved
the bid of Servco Products, Inc., as
the lowest and best bid for the purchase of various automotive and
truck parts, item 39; and
Whereas, in said Resolution No.
150-01, the bidder’s payment terms
were incorrectly stated as 10% Net
10 Days; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Board of Control Resolution No.
150-01,
adopted
March
14,
2001,
affirming and approving the bid of
Servco Products, Inc. as the lowest
and best for the purchase of various
automotive and truck parts, item 39,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service,
hereby
is
amended
by
changing
the
bidder’s
payment
terms to 1% Net 10 Days.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said resolution
not expressly amended hereby shall
remain in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 317-01.
By Director Whitlow.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Boise Cascade Office Products for
the following: Purchase & installation of office furniture and partitions at (2) locations: 1925 St. Clair
Mural Building and 9127 Miles Road
- Miles/Broadway Health Center, for
the
Division
of
Environment,
Department
of
Public
Health,
received on the 26th day of April,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 476-2000, passed May
1, 2000, which on the basis of the

The City Record
order quantity would amount to
$79,242.00, is hereby approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Department of Public Health
is hereby requested to enter into
contract for such items.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 318-01.
By Director Guzman.
Whereas, Resolution No. 253-01,
adopted by this Board on April 18,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 927-2000 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
June 10, 2000, authorized the Director of Public Safety to enter into an
agreement with Polytech, Inc. for
professional services necessary for
roof repairs/replacement at First
District Police Station, Sixth District
Police Station, Bradley Road Facility, and Fire Station No. 7; and
Whereas, said Resolution No. 25301 incorrectly states the proposal
date; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Board of Control Resolution No.
253-01, adopted April 18, 2001, is
hereby amended by changing the
words “February 7, 2001” to “February 27, 2001” in the second paragraph.
Be it further resolved, that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 253-01 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 319-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.04 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into a concession
agreement with Innovative Foods,
Inc. for the operation of concession
stands at Brookside and Gordon
Parks for a period not to exceed
sixty (60) days commencing May 3,
2001, for a concession fee of $300.00
per thirty (30) day period, per site
during the term of this agreement.
Be it further resolved, that the
concession
agreement
authorized
hereby shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such additional provisions as said
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit public interest.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 320-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Utilicon Corporation for an estimated quantity

955

37
of repair of water mains and appurtenances
(Area
D)
including
allowances (Items ID - 55D), for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
the 6th day of April, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1415-99, passed October 4, 1999, on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Eight Hundred
Seventy-Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty-One Dollars ($878,781.00),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 33949
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Five
Hundred
Thousand
Dollars
($500,000.00) (2%/30 Days).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Balraj, Directors Ricchiuto,
Whitlow, Acting Director Smith,
Directors Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

The City Record

38
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2001
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 01-83: 2164 West 6th
Street (Ward 13)
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, appeals to construct a 20' x 40' three-story, two
family dwelling house on a 25' x
100' vacant lot located in a B-MultiFamily District at 2164 West 6th
Street; said construction being contrary to the Lot Area Requirements
of Section 355.04 where a lot width
of 40' is required and 25' is provided and the minimum lot area
required is 4,800 sq. ft. and 2,700 sq.
ft. is proposed and contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements of
Section 357.04 where a 15' front yard
setback is required and 11' is proposed
and
Section
357.09(2)(b)
where a 3' minimum and 10' aggregate interior side yard is required
and a 1'-6" minimum and 3.5' aggregate interior side yard is proposed
and a building in a Residence District shall not be erected less than
10' from a main building on an
adjoining lot as stated in Section
357.09(2)(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-89: 424 Literary
Road (Ward 13)
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, appeals to construct a 20' x 40' three-story, two
family dwelling house on a 25' x
100' vacant lot located in a B-MultiFamily District at 424 Literary
Road; said construction being contrary to the Lot Area Requirements
of Section 355.04 where a lot width
of 40' is required and 25' is provided and the minimum lot area
required is 4,800 sq. ft. and 3,500 sq.
ft. is proposed and contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements of
Section 357.09(2)(b) where a 10'
aggregate interior side yard is
required and a 3' minimum and 5'
aggregate interior side yard is proposed and a building in a Residence
District shall not be erected less
than 10' from a main building on an
adjoining lot as stated in Section
357.09(2)(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-86: 1374 East 25th
Street (Ward 13)
Alexander Gorski, owner, appeals
to change the use of an existing 23'
x 38' one dwelling unit house into
three dwelling units all situated on
a 33' x 41' parcel located in a SemiIndustry District on the westerly
side of East 25th Street at 1374 East
25th Street; said change of use being
contrary to the Area Requirements
of Section 355.04(a) where the minimum lot area required is 7,200 sq.
ft. and 1,353 sq. ft. is proposed and
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Requirements of Section 357.08(b)(1)
where a 20' rear yard setback is
required and 10' is proposed and
Section 357.09(b)(2)(c) where an 8'
interior side yard is required and 3'
is provided at the northwest property line and 6' is provided at the
southeast property line and contrary
to the nonconforming use limitations and requires the Board of Zoning Appeals approval as stated in
Section 359.01(A) of the Codified
Ordinances.

Calendar No. 01-90: Lot Split Appeal/East 61st Street (between
Glass
and
Bonna
Avenues)
(Ward 13)
Carol Richards, owner, appeals
under
the
authority
of
Section
329.02(c) where the appellant has
the right to appeal to the Board of
Zoning Appeals from the refusal to
approve the splitting of an approximate 78' x 160' parcel into an
approximate 34' x 83' irregular
shaped parcel and a 44' x 160' irregular shaped parcel, all located on
the west side of East 61st Street
between Glass and Bonna Avenues;
said refusal by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction and
the Director of City Planning, under
the authority of Area Requirements
where the splitting of the one into
two parcels would create a substandard parcel as stated in Section
355.04 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

May 16, 2001
two family dwelling house as a day
care for up to 12 children on a 50'
x 112' parcel in a Single Family District.
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 01-46: 5007-09 Fleet
Avenue postponed to June 4, 2001.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 01-77: 1837-1839 Grantham Road
Mack and Saundra Saxon, owners,
appealed to change the use of a two
dwelling
unit
house
into
three
dwelling units on a 40' x 120' parcel in a Two Family District.
On Monday, May 14, 2001, in Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, May 7, 2001, and said
decisions were approved and adopted by the Board on May 14, 2001:
The following appeals were Approved:

MONDAY, MAY 14, 2001
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 14,
2001, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-78: 779-783 East
185th Street
Jane McGill and Matt Quinn, owners, appealed to install 154 linear
feet of 8' high wooden fencing to
the rear of a 50' x 108' parcel in a
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 01-79: 5009 Detroit
Avenue
Daniel Reed, owner, appealed to
change the use of a one-story
machine shop building into a grocery store in a Semi-industry District; conditioned upon installation
of
landscape
improvements
and
paving and draining for parking
spaces.
Calendar No. 01-84: 2168 West 6th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership appealed to construct a
20' x 40' two family dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-48: 4204 Detroit
Avenue
Paul Tomko, owner, appealed to
convert a patio into an enclosed dining room area for an existing
restaurant in a Local Retail Business District; upon conditions that a
landscaping plan be provided for
parking on appellants’ corner lot;
that off site parking on neighboring
properties is confirmed w/submission of written agreements; that all
signage on the premises conforms to
the Code.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 01-58: 3785 East 142nd
Street
Yvette Attaway, owner, appealed
to establish the use of a 32' x 38'

956

Calendar No. 01-73: 3402 Ruby Avenue
Donald White, owner, appealed to
construct a 6 x 24' one-story porch
extension to the front of an existing
6' x 24' front porch of a two family house in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-67: 1743 East 17th
Street
Med-All, Inc. c/o Nick Hill, owner,
appealed to demolish a one-story
masonry building and establish a
surface parking lot for 40 cars and
change the use of a one-story masonry office building into a warehouse
in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 01-72: 18012 Hillgrove
Avenue
Kevin Marrie, owner, appealed to
change the use of a two dwelling
unit house into three dwelling units
in a Two-Family District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
May 9, 2001
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket L-6-01.
RE: Appeal of Thomas Richner,
appeals
from
a
LETTER
OF
DENIAL FOR RENEWAL OF ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR LIMITED
PREMISE CLASS B LICENSE of the
Commissioner of the Division of

The City Record

May 16, 2001
Assessments & Licenses dated April
30, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit Mr.
Richner to renew his ELECTRICAL
CONTRACTOR LIMITED PREMISE
CLASS B LICENSE without retaking
the test but with payment of the
late filing fees. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-4-01.
RE: Appeal of Cliflake Limited
Liability Company, Owner of the
Clifton Plaza Apartments located on
the premises known as 11406 Clifton
Boulevard from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE (There is no
elevator recall, activated by smoke
detectors in each lobby—Ohio Fire
Code 1301:7-703, FB-3130) of the
Chief of the Division of Fire dated
December 5, 2000, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
The Board will take no action on
Docket A-4-01, noting that the case
should be filed with the State Board
of Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-10-01.
RE: Appeal of Cliflake Limited
Liability Company, Owner of the
Clifton Plaza Apartments located on
the premises known as 11430 Clifton
Boulevard from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE (There is no
elevator recall, activated by smoke
detectors in each lobby—Ohio Fire
Code 1301:7-703, FB-3130) of the
Chief of the Division of Fire dated
December 5, 2000, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
The Board will take no action on
Docket A-10-01, noting that the case
should be filed with the State Board
of Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-11-01.
RE: Appeal of OWM Corp., Owner,
and The Peltz Group Of Ohio (Tenant), of the Two Story Masonry &
Metal Paper Recycling Plant located on the premises known as 965
Wayside Road from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION/GENERAL
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated December 21, 2000, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) months in which
to abate the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action, noting that the docket will remain open for any more
possible appeals. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by, Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.

Docket A-19-01.
RE: Appeal of Collinwood Truck
& Auto Wrecking Inc., Owner of the
Auto Wrecking Property located on
the premises known as 17605 St.
Clair Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION/COMMERCIAL
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing, dated January 12, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) months in which
to abate all the violations on the
property, noting that the docket will
remain open for any more possible
appeals until the completion of that
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to Division of Building and
Housing
at
this
time
for
any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-20-01.
RE: Appeal of C.A. Auto Sales,
Inc., Owner of the Auto Sales Property located on the premises known
as 17197 St. Clair Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/COMMERCIAL MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated January 12,
2001, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) months in which
to abate all the violations on the
property, noting that the docket will
remain open for any more possible
appeals until the completion of that
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to Division of Building and
Housing
at
this
time
for
any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-21-01.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland American Auto Wrecking, Inc., Owner of
the Auto Wrecking Property located
on the premises known as 17201 St.
Clair Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION/COMMERCIAL
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing, dated January 12, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) months in which
to abate all the violations on the
property, noting that the docket will
remain open for any more possible
appeals until the completion of that
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to Division of Building and
Housing
at
this
time
for
any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Williams and
seconded by Mr. Saunders.

957

39
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-24-01.
RE: Appeal of Gene Fixler, Owner
of the Used Car Lot located on the
premises known as 16201 St. Clair
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/COMMERCIAL
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated January 25, 2001, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant one (1) month in which to
abate all the violations regarding
the fence and to require the Appellant to obtain a Certificate of Occupancy; the property is REMANDED
at this time to Division of Building
and Housing at this time for any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-45-01.
RE: Appeal of Kevin Marrie,
Owner of the Two Family Residential Property located on the premises known as 18012 Hillgrove Avenue
from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated January 23, 2001, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
The Board will take no action on
Docket A-45-01 at this time; the
docket will remain open and be
rescheduled at the request of the
Appellant.
*

*

*

Docket A-53-01.
RE: Appeal of Gary Lees, Owner
of the Two Family Residential Property and Proposed Swimming Pool
located on the premises known as
11806 Marne Avenue from a NOTICE
OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated April 11,
2001, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten (10) foot requirement and permit the pool to remain
in its present location, five (5) feet
from the property line, noting that
the property is enclosed by a fence;
and to stipulate that the power lines
be at least be ten (10) feet horizontally from the pool and with the
stipulation that a letter of agreement from the adjacent property
owner be submitted to the Board.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.

The City Record

40
Docket A-55-01.
RE: Appeal of Fries & Schuele,
Ltd., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 1948 West
25th Street from a PARTIAL ADJUDICATION ORDER (Section 705.2—
Exterior walls along north and
south property lines require a 3 hour
fire rating for a (M) Mercantile use
group, and 1 hour fire rating for an
(R2) Residential use group) of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated April
1, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the zero lot line requirement
(Section 705.2), and to grant a conditional variance to the use of the
exit access stairway, on an interim
basis for the trash compactor room;
allowing a permit to be granted and
awaiting receipt of the adjudication
order at a future time. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-71-01.
RE:
Appeal
of
Mark
Schwartz/G&S
Metal
Products,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 3330 East
79th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated April 23, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to (OBBC Section 507.0) and
permit the location and construction
of the wall as indicated on the drawings, noting that there are additional hydrants and to require that the
fire lane be maintained clear of storage and parking at all times. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-74-01.
RE: Appeal of Paris Food Co.,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2742 Grand
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/FIRE CODE of the Chief of
the Division of Fire dated January
18, 2001, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the variance request to Municipal Code —
Section
389.34(b);
381.04(d)
and
require that the dry sprinkler system for the freezer be reestablished
and maintained in accordance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of
Cleveland,
the
property
is
REMANDED to the Division of Fire
for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.

Docket A-75-01.
RE: Appeal of Trustees of The
Diocese of Ohio/Trinity Cathedral,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 2320 Euclid
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated April 3, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the height limit requirements OBBC Table 503, Building
(A), noting the height of the adjacent structures and to grant the
variance to the requirement for the
sprinkling of the Chapter Room,
#133; and to grant the variance to
OBBC Section 1006.3 and Table
1010.2 for use of the independent
exits, noting that the easements
through the property lines must be
maintained. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-14-01—Brothers Printing Co.
A-38-01—Fresques, Inc.
A-46-01—Henry Kirksey.
Yeas: Messrs. Williams, Saunders,
Sullivan. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr.
Denk. Absent: Mr. Bowes.

958

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Williams, for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC):
April 25, 2001
Yeas: Messrs. Williams, Saunders,
Sullivan. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr.
Denk. Absent: Mr. Bowes.
JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning

*

Docket A-80-01.
RE: Appeal of Bridge Housing
Corporation, Owner of the Residential
Properties
located
on
the
premises known as 5402-14 Bridge
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated May 3, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to OPC701.3 and permit the
Bridge Square Townhouses - Building #3 units to utilize the single
sewer connection, noting that there
is an agreement with the Bridge
Square Homeowners’ Association to
share the responsibilities of maintenance of the sewer; and to permit
the Chief Building Official, Robert
Vilkas, to exercise his authority on
a similar development in the same
area. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Williams.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

May 16, 2001

Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, May 21, 2001
1:30 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all
interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning will hold a public hearing in
the Mercedes Cotner Committee
Room 217, City Hall, Cleveland,
Ohio, on Monday, May 21, 2001, at
1:30 P.M., to consider the following
ordinance now pending in the
Council:
Ord. No. 452-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Dolan,
Lewis and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An ordinance to amend Section
350.10 of the Codified Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
as
amended by Ordinance No. 3076-A89,
passed
December
10,
1990,
relating to billboards; to enact
new Section 341.021 of said codified ordinances relating to airport
and lakefront public land protective districts; and to change the
use, area and height districts of
lands east of West 11 Street to
limited access line of State Route
176 (Map Change No 2029, Sheet
No 6).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning

May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001

May 16, 2001
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 2001
Golf Carts, for the Division of Recreation,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 80-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
Autocad Software, Installation and
Support, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1198-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, August 7, 2000.
Disposal of Debris at Landfills, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 946-99, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 14, 1999.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON FRIDAY, MAY 18, 2001,
10:00 A.M., AT THE DIVISION OF
WATER IN THE 4TH FLOOR
FINANCE CONFERENCE ROOM,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114. ATTENDANCE
IS MANDATORY.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2001
Rehabilitation of State Road, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordi-

The City Record
nance Nos. 1284-99 and 730-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 14, 1999 and
June 12, 2000, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT
WILL
BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 2001
Elevator Maintenance at City Hall,
for the Division of Property Management, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 29701, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
Elevator Maintenance and Repair,
for the Department of Public
Health, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1683-2000.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
SCHEDULED.
PLEASE
CALL
(216) 664-2634 TO OBTAIN DATE,
TIME AND LOCATION INFORMATION.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
FRIDAY, JUNE 1, 2001
Fifteen (15) 25-Cubic Yards Refuse
Packer Body Replacements, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 1685-2000 and 99-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 30, 2000 and
January 22, 2001, respectively.
Pharmaceutical Supplies, for the
Department of Public Health, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 18042000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 27,
2000.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2001
Typesetting and Printing of Personalized Stationery, Business Cards,
Mailing Services and Ward Mailings, for the Clerk of Council, as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 62501, 388-01 and 387-01.
A PRE-BID MEETING IS SCHEDULED FOR WEDNESDAY, MAY
23, 2001, 2:00 P.M., IN THE CITY
COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM,
ROOM
220,
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO. WHILE ATTENDANCE IS NOT MANDATORY,
BIDDERS
ARE
CAUTIONED
THAT QUESTIONS, CLARIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION MAY
RESULT FROM THIS MEETING
WHICH COULD SIGNIFICANTLY
AFFECT YOUR BID. IN ADDITION, THIS WILL BE THE ONLY
OPPORTUNITY FOR BIDDERS
TO
TALK
DIRECTLY
WITH
COUNCIL PERSONNEL PRIOR TO
THE AWARD OF A CONTRACT.
May 16, 2001 and May 23, 2001

41
THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2001
Millennium Project — Westside and
Eastside Market Improvements —
Bid Package 5, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 134-2000.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE BID
OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 24,
2001, 10:00 A.M., AT THE EASTSIDE MARKET, 625 EAST 105TH
STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
SCOPE: ELECTRICAL AND HVAC
IMPROVEMENTS, METAL ROOF
REPAIRS AND NEW ADDITION
AT EAST SIDE MARKET. HVAC
AND LOADING DOCK IMPROVEMENTS AT WEST SIDE MARKET.
Two (2) Particulate Monitors, for
the
Division
of
Environment,
Department of Public Health, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 4762000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 1, 2000.
One (1) Continuous Particulate Monitor, for the Division of Environment,
Department
of
Public
Health, as authorized by Ordinance No. 476-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 1, 2000.
Various Equipment, Controls and
Supplies for HVAC and Refrigeration Equipment, for the Division
of Property Management, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 890-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 7, 1999.
Defective Pole Replacement, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1387-2000, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 13, 2000.
A PRE-BID CONFERENCE WILL
BE HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY
31, 2001, 10:00 A.M., AT CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO. ATTENDANCE AT
THE PRE-BID CONFERENCE IS
MANDATORY. BIDS RECEIVED
FROM THOSE VENDORS NOT IN
ATTENDANCE WILL BE DISQUALIFIED
AS
NON-COMPLIANT.
May 16, 2001 and May 23, 2001
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13, 2001
Maintain and Repair Air Conditioning Systems, for the Department
of Port Control.
A
PRE-BID
CONFERENCE
IS
SCHEDULED FOR WEDNESDAY,
MAY 30, 2001, 1:00 P.M., IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL’S
MAIN
CONFERENCE
ROOM, AT CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT, 5300 RIVERSIDE DRIVE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
May 16, 2001 and May 23, 2001

959

The City Record

42
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, May 14, 2001
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation Committee: 9:30 a.m.—
Present: Rybka, Chairman; Dolan,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Johnson,
Reed, Sweeney. Excused: Britt.

May 16, 2001

Employment, Affirmative Action
and
Training
Committee:
11:00
a.m.—Present:
White,
Chairman;
Lewis, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones. Excused: Cintron.

Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Willis. Excused:
Cintron.

Finance Committee: 2:00 p.m.—
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Polensek,
Sweeney, White. Excused: Britt.

Public Safety Committee: 10:00
a.m.—Present: Polensek, Chairman;
Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Gordon,
Jackson, Melena, Sweeney. Excused:
Patmon, Vice Chairman.

Tuesday, May 15, 2001

Public Utilities Committee: 1:30
p.m.—Present: O’Malley, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Melena, Westbrook, Willis.
Excused: Polensek.

Community and Economic Development Committee: 9:30 a.m.—Present: Melena, Chairman; Lewis, Vice

Wednesday, May 16, 2001

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Administrative Services Division
Kelly Services, Inc. — clerical and secretarial services (O 838-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Aging Department
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) — CHORE Program — Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 835-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Western Reserve Area Agency 2001 — Grant — (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Agreements
Cable TV Franchise - amend (O 860-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area — acquisition, clearance
& redevelopment — MRN Ltd. (O 27-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Animals
Trapping services — Division of Environment (O 540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Banners
Detroit Business District — Cudell Improvement, Inc. (O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment — special neighborhood events (O 800-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Mt. Carmel Church — 75th Anniversary (O 833-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Northeast Shores Development Corporation (O 859-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Westown Community Development Corporation (O 854-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
YMCA — new facility (O 827-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Bridge Avenue, 5402-14, (Ward 17) – Bridge Housing Corporation, owner - appeal resolved
on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-80-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Clifton Boulevard, 11406, (Ward 17) – Cliflake Liability Company, owner - no action on
5/9/01 (Doc. A-4-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Clifton Boulevard, 11430, (Ward 17) – Cliflake Limited Liability Company, owner no action on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-10-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
East 79th Street, 3330, (Ward 5) – Mark Schwartz/G & S Metal Products, owner
- appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-71-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958

960

May 16, 2001

The City Record

43

East 93rd Street, 3560, (Ward 2) – Henry Kirksey, owner - appeal adopted on 5/9/01
(Doc. A-46-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Euclid Avenue, 2000, (Ward 13) – Brothers Printing Co., owner - appeal adopted on 5/9/01
(Doc. A-14-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Euclid Avenue, 2320, (Ward 13) – Trustees of The Diocese of Ohio/Trinity Cathedral, owner
- appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-75-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Grand Avenue, 2742, (Ward 5) – Paris Food Co., owner - appeal resolved on
5/9/01 (Doc. A-74-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Hillgrove Avenue, 18012, (Ward 11) – Kevin Marrie, owner - no action on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-45-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Marne Avenue, 11806, (Ward 19) – Gary Lees, owner - appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-53-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Puritas Avenue, 18009, (Ward 21) – Fresques Inc., owner - appeal adopted on 5/9/01
(Doc. A-38-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Richner, Thomas – appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. L-6-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
St. Clair Avenue, 16201, (Ward 11) – Gene Fixler, owner - appeal resolved on 5/9/01
(Doc. A-24-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
St. Clair Avenue, 17197, (Ward 11) – C.A. Auto Sales, Inc., owner - appeal resolved on
5/9/01 (Doc. A-20-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
St. Clair Avenue, 17201, (Ward 11) – Cleveland American Auto Wrecking, Inc., owner
- appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-21-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
St. Clair Avenue, 17605, (Ward 11) – Collinwood Truck & Auto Wrecking Inc., owner
- appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-19-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Wayside Road, 965, (Ward 11) – OWN Corp., owner and The Peltz Group of Ohio, tenant
- appeal resolved on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-11-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
West 25th Street, 1948, (Ward 14) – Fries & Schuele, Ltd., owner - appeal resolved
on 5/9/01 (Doc. A-55-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958

Board of Control - Brookside Park
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 183.04
to Innovative Foods, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 319-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Cleveland Municipal School District - concession agreement for reception - May 16, 2001
- Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 311-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Brookpark Road waterline valve purchase - contract pursuant to Ord. 552-2000
and 1234-2000 to US Filter Distribution Group, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 312-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Centralized Deicing Facility Phase 1A - approve subcontractors to North Bay Construction,
Inc. - amend BOC Res. 736-00 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 309-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Tug Road replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 2049-99 to Perk Company - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 313-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Board of Control - Concession Agreement
Cleveland Municipal School District - concession agreement for reception - May 16, 2001
- Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 311-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 183.04
to Innovative Foods, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 319-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Environment Division
Furniture, office and partitions - contract pursuant to Ord. 476-2000 to Boise Cascade
Office Products - Division of Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Finance Department
Dump body rehabilitation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 to Domestic &
Foreign Auto Body, Inc. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 305-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

961

The City Record

44

May 16, 2001

Board of Control - Fire Division
Vehicles, aerial ladder platform - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 and 98-01 to Smeal
Fire Apparatus Co. - Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 304-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

Board of Control - Gordon Park
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 183.04
to Innovative Foods, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 319-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Miles Broadway Health Center
Furniture, office and partitions - contract pursuant to Ord. 476-2000 to Boise Cascade
Office Products - Division of Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Automotive and truck parts - amend BOC Res. 150-01 - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 316-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Mural Building
Furniture, office and partitions - contract pursuant to Ord. 476-2000 to Boise Cascade
Office Products - Division of Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - NASA
NASA South 40 PER facilities, design of - approve subconsultant to Middough & Associates,
Inc. - amend BOC Res. 8-01 - Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 310-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 183.04
to Innovative Foods, Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 319-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Brookpark Road waterline valve purchase - contract pursuant to Ord. 552-2000
and 1234-2000 to US Filter Distribution Group, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 312-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Centralized Deicing Facility Phase 1A - approve subcontractors to North Bay Construction,
Inc. - amend BOC Res. 736-00 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 309-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Cleveland Municipal School District - concession agreement for reception - May 16, 2001
- Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 311-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
NASA South 40 PER facilities, design of - approve subconsultant to Middough & Associates,
Inc. - amend BOC Res. 8-01 - Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 310-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Tug Road replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 2049-99 to Perk Company - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 313-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
NASA South 40 PER facilities, design of - approve subconsultant to Middough & Associates,
Inc. - amend BOC Res. 8-01 - Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 310-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Board of Control - Public Health Department
Furniture, office and partitions - contract pursuant to Ord. 476-2000 to Boise Cascade
Office Products - Division of Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Centralized Deicing Facility Phase 1A - approve subcontractors to North Bay Construction,
Inc. - amend BOC Res. 736-00 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 309-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Distribution mains - Area 2001-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of - contract
pursuant to Ord. 2201-2000 to Utilicon Corporation - Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 306-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

962

May 16, 2001

The City Record

45

Distribution mains - Area 2001-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of - contract
pursuant to Ord. 2201-2000 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 307-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Roof replacement at First and Sixth District Police stations, Bradley Road facility and
Fire Station No. 7 - amend BOC Res. 253-01 - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 318-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Tug Road replacement - contract pursuant to Ord. 2049-99 to Perk Company - Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 313-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Roof replacement at First and Sixth District Police stations, Bradley Road facility and
Fire Station No. 7 - amend BOC Res. 253-01 - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 318-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Vehicles, aerial ladder platform - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 and 98-01 to Smeal
Fire Apparatus Co. - Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 304-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Asphalt concrete - contract pursuant to Ord. 1679-2000 to Kenmore Construction Co., Inc.
- Division of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 314-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Automotive and truck parts - amend BOC Res. 150-01 - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 316-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Shelving, movable and filing systems - pursuant to Ord. 1198-2000 - all bids rejected Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 315-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Distribution mains - Area 2001-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of - contract
pursuant to Ord. 2201-2000 to Utilicon Corporation - Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 306-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Distribution mains - Area 2001-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of - contract
pursuant to Ord. 2201-2000 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 307-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Fire hydrants, labor and materials to repair - contract pursuant to Ord. 2100-2000 to LJI
Construction Company, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 308-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Water mains and appurtenances (Area D), repair of - contract pursuant to Ord. 1415-99 to
Utilicon Corporation - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 320-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Asphalt concrete - contract pursuant to Ord. 1679-2000 to Kenmore Construction Co., Inc.
- Division of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 314-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Automotive and truck parts - amend BOC Res. 150-01 - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 316-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Dump body rehabilitation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 to Domestic &
Foreign Auto Body, Inc. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 305-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Fire hydrants, labor and materials to repair - contract pursuant to Ord. 2100-2000 to LJI
Construction Company, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 308-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Vehicles, aerial ladder platform - contract pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 and 98-01 to Smeal
Fire Apparatus Co. - Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 304-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Water mains and appurtenances (Area D), repair of - contract pursuant to Ord. 1415-99 to
Utilicon Corporation - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 320-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Standard Purchase Contracts
Brookpark Road waterline valve purchase - contract pursuant to Ord. 552-2000
and 1234-2000 to US Filter Distribution Group, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 312-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Furniture, office and partitions - contract pursuant to Ord. 476-2000 to Boise Cascade
Office Products - Division of Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Control - Streets Division
Asphalt concrete - contract pursuant to Ord. 1679-2000 to Kenmore Construction Co., Inc.
- Division of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 314-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

963

The City Record

46

May 16, 2001

Board of Control - Water Division
Distribution mains - Area 2001-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of - contract
pursuant to Ord. 2201-2000 to Utilicon Corporation - Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 306-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Distribution mains - Area 2001-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of - contract
pursuant to Ord. 2201-2000 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 307-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Fire hydrants, labor and materials to repair - contract pursuant to Ord. 2100-2000 to LJI
Construction Company, Inc. - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 308-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Water mains and appurtenances (Area D), repair of - contract pursuant to Ord. 1415-99 to
Utilicon Corporation - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 320-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955

Board of Education
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs — 2001-2002 school year
(O 850-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Detroit Avenue, 4204, (Ward 14) – Paul Tomko, owner - appeal heard on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-48) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Detroit Avenue, 5009, (Ward 17) – Daniel Reed, owner - appeal heard on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-79) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
East 142nd Street, 3785, (Ward 3) – Yvette Attaway, owner - appeal heard on 5/14/01
(Cal. 01-58) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
East 17th Street, 1743, (Ward 13) – Med-All, Inc., c/o Nick Hill, owner - appeal granted
and adopted on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
East 185th Street, 779-783, (Ward 11) – Jane McGill and Matt Quinn, owners - appeal heard
on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-78) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Fleet Avenue, 5007-5009, (Ward 12) – Robert Clark, owner - appeal postponed to 6/4/01 on
5/14/01 (Cal. 01-46). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Grantham Road, 1837-1839, (Ward 10) – Mac and Saundra Saxon, owners - appeal dismissed
on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-77) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Hillgrove Avenue, 18012, (Ward 11) – Kevin Marrie, owner - appeal denied and adopted on
5/14/01 (Cal. 01-72). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Ruby Avenue, 3402, (Ward 16) – Donald White, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
5/14/01 (Cal. 01-73). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
West 6th Street, 2168, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited Partnership, owner
- appeal heard on 5/14/01 (Cal. 01-84) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
East 25th Street, 1374, (Ward 13) – Alexander Gorski, owner - appeal to be heard on
5/29/01 (Cal. 01-86). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
East 61st Street, Lot split between Glass Avenue and Bonna Avenue, (Ward 13) – Carol
Richards, owner - appeal to be heard on 5/29/01 (Cal. 01-90) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Literary Road, 424, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited Partnership, owner - appeal
to be heard on 5/29/01 (Cal. 01-89) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
West 6th Street, 2164, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited Partnership, owner
- appeal to be heard on 5/29/01 (Cal. 01-83). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956

Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Contract - amend (O 829-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933

Cable Television
Franchise Agreement - amend (O 860-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942

City of Cleveland Bids
Air conditioning system repair - Department of Port Control - bid due June 13,
2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Debris, disposal at landfills - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per
Ord. 946-99 - bid due May 23, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959

964

May 16, 2001

The City Record

47

Elevator maintenance and repair - Department of Public Health - per Ord. 1683-2000 - bid
due May 30, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Elevator maintenance at City Hall - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
- Division of Property Management - per Ord. 297-01 - bid due May 30, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001
and 5/16/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Golf carts - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties - Division of Recreation per Ord. 80-01 - bid due May 23, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
HVAC and refrigeration equipment controls and supplies - Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties - Division of Property Management - per Ord. 890-99 - bid due June
7, 2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Millennium Project, West Side Market and East Side Market improvement - Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties - per Ord. 134-2000 - bid due June 7,
2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Monitor, continuous particulate - Department of Public Health - Division of Environment
- per Ord. 476-2000 - bid due June 7, 2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Monitors, particulate - Department of Public Health - Division of Environment - per Ord.
476-2000 - bid due June 7, 2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Pharmaceutical supplies - Department of Public Health - per Ord. 1804-2000 - bid due June
1, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Pole replacement - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Cleveland Public Power
- per Ord. 1387-2000 - bid due June 7, 2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Refuse packer body (25-cubic yard) replacement - Department of Public Service - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 - bid due June 1,
2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
State Road rehabilitation - Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering and
Construction - per Ord. 1284-99 and 730-2000 - bid due May 24, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . 959
Stationery, business cards, ward mailings and mailing services - Clerk of Council - per
Ord. 387-01, 388-01 and 625-01 - bid due May 31, 2001(advertised 5/16/2001 and 5/23/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959

City Council
Civilian Conservation Corps - restoration of funding — support (R 180-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952

City Planning Commission
Billboards - amend Section 350.10 and new Section 341.021 - airport and lakefront
public lands (O.452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Columbus Road, N.W. and Gould Ct., N.W. - zoning (Ward 14) (O 1972-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-947
Euclid-Prospect Area Community Development Plan — additional amendments
(O 870-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Lorain Ave. between W. 67 St. & W. 52 St. - zoning (O 2313-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-949
Westport Avenue S.W. — vacate (O 851-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Willard Avenue, N.W - zoning (O 2218-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-948
Quilliams Road - west side - establish Planned Unit Development Overlay District - zoning
(O 1689-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Aviation communications equipment — install (O 642-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R— permits for demolition, relocation and construction
(O 2015-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Cleveland Municipal School District
Natural gas transportation services — East Ohio Gas Company — contract
(O 173-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945

Cleveland Public Power
Automotive and truck parts (O 544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-950
Eastside Service Center — operation (O 843-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

965

The City Record

48

May 16, 2001

Cleveland Tenants Organization
Tenant organizations - support — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 802-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Tenant organizations — support — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 810-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Codified Ordinances
Air Pollution Code - Law Director - update (R 853-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Air Pollution Code - penalties - increase — amend Section 287.03 (O 807-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Billboards - amend Section 350.10 and new Section 341.021 - airport and lakefront
public lands (O.452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
City Transfer Site - service charge — amend Section 551.29 (O 814-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Harbor - abutting property owners - responsibilities - amend Section
573.10 (O 1485-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943-947
Landlords and tenants — Chapter 375 — enact (O 1844-A-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Medical physicians — employment — Section 141.39 - enact (O 382-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-950
Pedestrian barriers — Cuyahoga and Old Rivers — Section 3123.10 - enact
(O 812-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929

Commemoration
Kohout, Douglas L. (R 797-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Communications
Ameritemps, Inc — fair employment wage — compliance (F 770-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Barber, Cindy - City Council appointment — Fair Housing Board (F 769-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Community Development Block Grant Program — quarterly report (F 774-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Ran Associates, Inc. — fair employment wage — compliance (F 771-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Richard E. Jacobs Group, Inc. — Financial Agreements — Annual Report (F 772-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Richard E. Jacobs Group, Inc. — Financial Agreements — Annual report (F 773-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921

Community Development
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Contract - amend (O 829-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — construction and development administrative costs (O 836-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Cleveland Tenants Organization — tenant organizations — support — Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 810-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Cleveland Tenants Organization - tenant organizations — support — Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 802-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Community Development Programs - contracts — amend (O 840-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Community Garden Program — non-profit agencies — contract (O 837-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act - comprehensive plan — approve
(O 798-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Esperenza, Inc. — educational programming — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 815-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Esperenza, Inc. — relocation costs — Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 832-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area — acquisition, clearance
& redevelopment — MRN Ltd. (O 27-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
InterAct Cleveland — food cooperative — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 801-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation — directional signage — amend Title and Section
1 of Ord. No. 1077-2000 — Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 856-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Kelly Services, Inc. — clerical and secretarial services — Division of Administrative
Services - contract (O 838-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Landlords and tenants - Chapter 375 — enact A (O 1844-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs - funds — approve (O 839-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
MetroHealth — AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Neighborhood revitalization activities — Kamms Corners Development Corporation —
contract — amend (O 444-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946-950

966

May 16, 2001

The City Record

49

Oasis Development Corporation — R.O.P.E.S. program — Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 819-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
ORCA House — social services — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 803-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
ParkWorks, Inc. — landscape training program — Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 647-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) — CHORE Program — Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 835-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Senior Outreach Services, Inc. — social service programs — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 804-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association — festival — Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 808-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program - grant (O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Touchstone Management — Hilltop Estates — improvements — Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 818-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Tower Press Ltd. - property — lease (O 614-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-950
Tremont West Development Corporation - HOPE VI — develop — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 809-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Community Development Block Grant Program
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs - funds — approve (O 839-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Quarterly report (F 774-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) — CHORE Program (O 835-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Community Development Plan
Euclid-Prospect Area Community Development Plan — additional amendments
(O 870-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Condolences
Davis, Godfrea (R 785-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Gates, Carrie (R 786-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Lewis, Cora (R 787-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Studamire, James Lee (R 788-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Congratulations
Luther Blackwell Ministries/Mega Church (R 790-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Milan Kucan, President, Republic of Slovenian (R 792-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Moze, Tony (R 791-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Rogers, Barbara (R 794-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Sinclair, Rasheen (R 793-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
The Eliza Bryant Center (R 789-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Cudell Improvement
Detroit Business District — banners (O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

East Ohio Gas Company
Natural gas transportation services — Cleveland Municipal School District contract (O 173-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945

Economic Development Department
Flats Realty, Ltd. - economic development assistance — contract (O 811-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Mercantile Road, 23600 - Cleveland House of Corrections - property
— lease (O 834-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Election Procedures and Voting Reforms
Election procedures and voting reform - comprehensive study - conduct (R 864-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943

967

The City Record

50

May 16, 2001

Fair Housing Review Board
Barber, Cindy - City Council — appointment (F 769-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921

Finance Department
1999 and 2000 - Financial Reports — print (O 844-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Messenger service — various divisions of City government (O 654-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952

Flats District
Pedestrian barriers — Cuyahoga and Old Rivers — Section 3123.10 — enact
(O 812-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929

Gas Rates
Gas supplier - negotiate - contract (O 841-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Grants
Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program (O 824-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Diabetes Action Plan Program — — Minority Health Commission (O 538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Eagle Avenue Bridge — Alternative Analysis Study — amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 951-99
(O 817-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Environment Division operation — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
State Capital Appropriation Grant — Dept. of Administrative Services (O 79-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-950
State Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program (O 825-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program (O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Western Reserve Area Agency — Department on Aging (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Health Department
Air Pollution Code - Law Director -update (R 853-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Air Pollution Code violations - amend Section 287.03 (O 807-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Animal trapping services — Division of Environment (O 540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program - grant (O 824-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Diabetes Action Plan Program — grant — Minority Health Commission (O 538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Environment Division operation — grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Medical physicians — employment — Section 141.39 — enact (O 382-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-950
Nursing services — employ - Health Division (O 539-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-950
State Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — grant (O 825-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

House of Corrections
Mercantile Road, 23600 - property — lease (O 834-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935

Housing
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — construction and development administrative costs (O 836-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act - comprehensive plan — approve
(O 798-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925

Insurance
Home and automobile premiums — rates (R 863-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943

Land Reutilization Program
Union Ave., 9113 — Center for Families and Children (O 828-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933

968

May 16, 2001

The City Record

51

Law Department
Air Pollution Code - Law Director — update (R 853-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940

Liquor Permits
Denison Ave., 2101 — transfer ownership (F 784-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
E. 185th St., 568 — transfer (F 778-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
East 14th St., 1422 — transfer (F 781-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Larchmere Ave., 12718 — transfer (F 780-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Loretta Ave., 9901 - transfer (F 777-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Madison Ave., 9815 — transfer (F 783-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Miles Rd., 11334 — transfer (F 779-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Prospect Ave., 820 — transfer (F 776-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
W. 25th St., 1822-26 - transfer (F 782-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Memoranda of Understanding
Community Development Programs — contracts (O 840-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Metro Health Medical Center
AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Tire recapping (O 816-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930

National League of Cities
Membership dues — payment (O 862-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Cleveland Tenants Organization — tenant organizations - support — Ward
6 (O 802-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Cleveland Tenants Organization — tenant organization — support — Ward
13 (O 810-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Esperenza, Inc. — educational programming — Ward 14 (O 815-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Esperenza, Inc. — relocation costs — Ward 17 (O 832-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
InterAct Cleveland - food cooperative — Ward 6 (O 801-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation — directional signage — amend the Title and
Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1077-2000 — Ward 21 (O 856-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
MetroHealth — AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Oasis Development Corp. — R.O.P.E.S. program — Ward 10 (O 819-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
ORCA House — social services — Ward 6 (O 803-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
ParkWorks, Inc. — landscape training program — Ward 15 (O 647-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Senior Outreach Services, Inc — social service programs — Ward 6 (O 804-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association — festival — Ward 13
(O 808-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Touchstone Management — Hilltop Estates — improvements — Ward 10 (O 818-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Tremont West Dev. Corp. - HOPE VI Application — Ward 13 (O 809-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Eagle Avenue Bridge — Alternative Analysis Study — grant — amend Section 2 of Ord. No.
951-99 (O 817-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Environment Division operation — grant (O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Ohio General Assembly
Election procedures and voting reform - comprehensive study - conduct (R 864-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943

969

The City Record

52

May 16, 2001

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Ameritemps, Inc — fair employment wage — compliance (F 770-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Broadway Ave., 6564-6566 — sale — amend the title and Section 2 of Ord. No. 1007-2000
(O 848-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Luke Easter Park - Parkworks — renovations —contract (O 847-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Parks, and recreation facilities — improve (O 849-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Ran Associates, Inc. — fair employment wage — compliance (F 771-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs - 2001 - 2002 —Cleveland Municipal
School District - contract (O 850-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
State Capital Appropriation Grant — Dept. of Administrative Services (O 79-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-950

Permits
Great Lakes Brewing Co. - West 26th St. — encroachment (O 855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Northeast Shores Development Corporation — East 185th Street Festival Run
(O 858-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2 — Euclid Creek Development, Ltd. — Lakeport Road
—encroachment (O 846-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
YMCA — 5K Run (O 857-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941

Port Control Department
Aviation communications equipment — install (O 642-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952
Concourse C — apron replacement (O 823-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Data network — Ordinance No. 468-2000 - amend (O 822-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
FAA TRACON — construction (O 2017-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-947
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R— permits for demolition, relocation and construction
(O 2015-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Public Hearings (Notices)
Columbus Road, N.W. and Gould Ct., N.W. — zoning — (Ward 14) (O 1972-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-947
Lorain Ave. between W. 67 St. & W. 52 St. - zoning (O 2313-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-949
Willard Avenue, N.W - zoning (O 2218-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-948

Pump Stations
Incinerator pump station - replace — Ward 13 (O 813-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929

Recognition
National Municipal Clerks Association Week (R 795-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Resolution of Support
Civilian Conservation Corps - restoration of funding - Council — support
(R 180-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Election procedures and voting reform - Ohio General Assembly - study-conduct
(R 864-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Federal Bank — creation — H.R. 1564 — support (R 861-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Historic property — rehabilitation — tax credit — Ohio State Legislature — proposal
— support (R 317-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Home and automobile insurance — rates (R 863-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
National League of Cities — membership dues — payment (O 862-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Tax benefits — public utilities, corporations and entities —legislation —support
(R 315-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952
Voting reforms and election procedures — Ohio General Assembly - comprehensive study —
conduct (R 864-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943

970

May 16, 2001

The City Record

53

Service Department
Eagle Avenue Bridge — Alternative Analysis Study — grant — amend Section 2 of Ord. No.
951-99 (O 817-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Sewers
East 143rd Street (O 831-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Erwin Avenue (O 852-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Fairway Drive area (O 821-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Kadel Avenue (O 799-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Melbourne Avenue (O 820-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Naples Avenue (O 830-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Ostend Avenue (O 845-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Sidewalks
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Statement of Work Acceptance
Nottingham Waterworks Plant — heating boilers — Contract No. 55777 (F 775-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921

Street Vacation
Marquette St., N. E. (O 806-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Mt. Overlook Ave., S. E. (O 805-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927

Tax Credits
Historic property rehabilitation — Ohio State Legislature — proposal — support
(R 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Taxes
Tax benefits — public utilities, corporations and entities (R 315-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-952

Tremont West Development Corporation
HOPE VI Application — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 809-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Utilities Department
Automotive and truck parts — Cleveland Public Power (O 544-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-950
Brecksville Road - property -sell (O 2266-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944-948
Dictaphone Corporation — equipment — Division of Water (O 842-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
East 143rd Street — sewer (O 831-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
East side Service Center — operation (O 843-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Erwin Avenue — sewer (O 852-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Fairway Drive area — sewer (O 821-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Gas rate - gas supplier — negotiate — contract (O 841-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Incinerator pump station - replace — Ward 13 (O 813-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Kadel Avenue — sewer (O 799-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Melbourne Avenue — sewer (O 820-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Naples Avenue — sewer (O 830-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Nottingham Waterworks Plant — heating boilers (F 775-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Ostend Avenue — sewer (O 845-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Ward 01
East 143rd Street — sewer (O 831-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Naples Avenue — sewer (O 830-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Sinclair, Rasheen — Congratulations (R 793-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Studamire, James Lee — Condolence (R 788-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

971

The City Record

54

May 16, 2001

Ward 02
Davis, Godfrea — Condolence (R 785-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Gates, Carrie — Condolence (R 786-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Miles Rd., 11334 — Liquor Permit — transfer (F 779-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Rogers, Barbara — Congratulations (R 794-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Ward 03
Luke Easter Park — renovations - ParkWorks — contract (O 847-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938

Ward 05
MetroHealth — AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Union Ave., 9113 — Land Reutilization Program — Center for Families and Children
(O 828-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
YMCA — banners — new facility (O 827-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

Ward 06
Cleveland Tenants Organization — tenant organizations — support — Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 802-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
InterAct Cleveland — food cooperative — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 801-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Larchmere Ave., 12718 — Liquor Permit — transfer (F 780-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment — banners — special neighborhood events
(O 800-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Mt. Overlook Ave., S. E. — vacate (O 805-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
ORCA House — social services — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 803-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Senior Outreach Services, Inc — social service programs — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 804-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926

Ward 07
The Eliza Bryant Center — Congratulations (R 789-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Ward 08
Ostend Avenue — sewer (O 845-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Ward 10
Oasis Development Corp. — R.O.P.E.S. program — Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 819-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Touchstone Management — Hilltop Estates — improvements — Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 818-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Quilliams Road - west side - establish Planned Unit Development Overlay District - zoning
(O 1689-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 568 - Liquor Permit — transfer (F 778-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Lewis, Cora — Condolence (R 787-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Milan Kucan, President, Republic of Slovenian — Congratulations (R 792-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Moze, Tony — Congratulations (R 791-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
National Municipal Clerks Association Week — Recognition (R 795-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Northeast Shores Development corporation — banners (O 859-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Northeast Shores Development Corporation — East 185th Street Festival Run — permit
(O 858-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2 — Euclid Creek Development, Ltd. -Lakeport Road
- encroachment — permit (O 846-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 6564-6566 — sale — amend the title and Section 2 of Ord. No. 1007-2000
(O 848-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938

972

May 16, 2001

The City Record

55

Ward 13
Cleveland Tenants Organization — tenant organizations - support — Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 810-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
East 14th St., 1422 — Liquor Permit — transfer (F 781-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Flats Realty, LTD. - economic development assistance 955 West Street (O 811-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Incinerator pump station - replace — Ward 13 (O 813-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
League of Women Voters of Ohio — Welcome (R 796-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Marquette St., N. E. — vacate (O 806-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Pedestrian barriers — Cuyahoga and Old Rivers — new Section 3123.10 (O 812-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Prospect Ave., 820 — Liquor Permit — transfer (F 776-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association — festival — Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 808-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Tremont West Dev. Corp. - HOPE VI Application— Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 809-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Ward 14
Columbus Road, N.W. and Gould Ct., N.W. — zoning — (Ward 14) (O 1972-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-947
Esperenza, Inc. — educational programming — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 815-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Great Lakes Brewing Co. - West 26th St. - encroachment — permit (O 855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Kohout, Douglas L. — Commemoration (R 797-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Luther Blackwell Ministries/Mega Church — Congratulations (R 790-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
W. 25th St., 1822-26 - Liquor Permit — transfer (F 782-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Ward 15
Denison Ave., 2101 — transfer of ownership — liquor permit (F 784-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
ParkWorks, Inc. - landscape training program — Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 647-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945

Ward 17
Esperenza, Inc. — relocation costs — Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 832-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Lorain Ave. between W. 67 St. & W. 52 St. — zoning (O 2313-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-949
Mt. Carmel Church’s 75th Anniversary — banners (O 833-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
YMCA — 5K Run — permit (O 857-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941

Ward 18
Detroit Business District — Cudell Improvement, Inc. — banners (O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Loretta Ave., 9901 - Liquor Permit — transfer (F 777-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Madison Ave., 9815 — Liquor Permit — transfer (F 783-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Willard Avenue, N.W - zoning (O 2218-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945-948

Ward 19
Kadel Avenue — sewer (O 799-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Westown Community Development Corporation — banners (O 854-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940

Ward 20
Erwin Avenue — sewer (O 852-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Westport Avenue S.W. — vacate (O 851-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939

Ward 21
Fairway Drive area — sewer (O 821-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation — directional signage — amend the Title and
Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1077-2000 — Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 856-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Melbourne Avenue — sewer (O 820-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931

973

The City Record

56

May 16, 2001

Water Division
Dictaphone Corporation — equipment — Division of Water (O 842-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Weatherization Program
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant (O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Welcome
League of Women Voters of Ohio — Welcome (R 796-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922

Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
Department on Aging - grant (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Zoning
Quilliams Road - west side - establish Planned Unit Development Overlay District - zoning
(O 1689-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

974

