The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

March the Eighteenth, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Eight

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Artha Woods
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Larry Moran
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
22
23
27
27
27
27
27
27
29
36
36

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones..............................................15601 Lotus Drive
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman ......................................1428 Fairfield Avenue
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3032 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.........................................1813 Tampa Avenue
Larry Moran .............................................3584 West 46th Street
Timothy J. Melena ........................6109 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council–Artha Woods, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk–Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Laura Ann Williams, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Milan T. Polacek, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
DEPT. OF LAW – Sylvester Summers, Jr., Director, Lessie M. Milton,
Chief Counsel, Room 106
George A. Pace, Jr., Chief Asst. Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice
Center, 8th Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Gayle Goodwin Smith, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – ________________, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Commissioner, 1404 E.
9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Acting Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Stephen Sheehan, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Larry Hines, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – JoMarie Wasik, Acting Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kenneth Nobilio, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Robert O. Staib, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue.
DIVISIONS – Health – Joyce Atwell-Joyce, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Eric Myles, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925
St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY –William M. Denihan, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Rocco Pollutro, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – David Ritz, Commissioner, 2001 Payne Ave.
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 1708 South
Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Oliver B. Spellman,
Jr., Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium– James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner,
E. 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Alfred T. Miller, Jr., Acting Commissioner, Public
Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties –Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT –Terri Hamilton, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Terri Hamilton, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Joseph Nolan,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Susan E. Axelrod, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Cornell P. Carter, Acting

Director; Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele
Springman, Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward
Rybka, City Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie,
Charles E. McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary
Jan Buckshot, Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen,
Barbara S. Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Cynthia Sullivan,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Sylvester

Summers, Jr., President; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr., Secretary;
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Henry Guzmán;

Law Director Sylvester Summers, Jr.; Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Sylvester

Summers, Jr.; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Rev. Albert T. Rowan, Chairman; ____________, Vice Chairman, David
Bowen, Anthony J. Coyne, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney,
Councilman Edward W. Rybka.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Sylvester Summers, Jr.;
Chairman; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr.; Council President Jay
Westbrook.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Raymond Ossovicki,
Chairman; _____________, Anton J. Eichmuller, Samuel Montfort
J. Gilbert Steele, Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chrm.;
Earl S. Bumgarner, _______________, Jozef Valencik, Martin Gallagher,
Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
CLEV ELA ND LAND MA RKS COMMISS ION – Ro om 519 ,_ ___ __ _ _,
Director; R. Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Robert
Keiser, Secretary; Judge Lillian Burke, James Gibans, Hunter Morrison,
Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Randall Shorr, Shirley Thompson,
Councilman Craig E. Willis.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, John J. O’Toole–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1998

Vol. 85

No. 4397

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.00 per month
Address all communications to

ARTHA WOODS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
&
Recreation
Committee:
Willis,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Britt, Lewis, Polensek, Sweeney,
White.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Jackson, Melena, Robinson.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Cintron,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Johnson, Jones,
Melena, Moran, Patmon, Polensek.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Moran, Vice Chairman;Britt, Cintron, Gordon, Lewis,
Johnson.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Johnson, Chairman;
Westbrook,
Vice
Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena,
Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka,
Sweeney, Zone.
TUESDAY
10:00 A.M.—Community and Economic Development Committee: Jackson,
Chairman;
Robinson,
Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jones, Lewis, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Zone, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Dolan, Johnson, Rybka.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Cimperman,
Dolan,
Patmon,
White,
Willis.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Coats, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Gordon, Jackson, Jones,
Melena, Moran, White, Willis.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Coats, Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Jones, Lewis, Moran, Polensek.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Rybka, Chairman; Robinson,
Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Jackson, White, Willis, Zone.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio March 16, 1998.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Jay
Westbrook in the Chair.
Councilmen present: Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis,
Melena, Moran, Patmon, Polensek,
Robinson, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White, Willis, Zone.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Summers, Carmody,
Guzman, Staib, Spellman, Hamilton,
Nolan, Warren, Morrison and Acting
Directors
Sheffield-McClain,
Carter, Jackson, Terry and Alexander.
Absent: Directors Konicek, Denihan and Axelrod.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 292676, the Council meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Father
Brendan McNulty of Saints Phillip
and James Catholic Church, located in Ward 19. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Councilman
Britt, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 417-98.
Received,
letters
from
various
entities apprising the Council that
each said entity will be a partner in
a residential development project
located in various wards, with any
development dependent upon various funding programs and tax credits, some through the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency, and allowing for
public comment regarding each project’s impact. The following entity
sent letter for the development listed with project type and number of
units:
Broadway Area Housing Coalition
for Harvard School Senior Apartments (Maximum 60 Apartments).
Received.

351

File No. 459-98.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Excess Property Reference No. 004-98. Received.
File No. 460-98.
From the Department of Public
Safety re: The Jewish Community
Federation of Cleveland donated
$500.00, for the purchase of equipment for use in the gym of the Division of Police. Received.
File No. 461-98.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Requirement Contract/ Monthly Report March, 1998.
Received.
File No. 462-98.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Emergency Requisition (RE-01769). Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 463-98.
Re: New Application - 9154910 Union Discount Inc. dba Union Discount, 11703 Union Avenue. (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 464-98.
Re: New Application - 07710350005
- BD of Park Commissioners Cleveland Metro Park District dba Final
Round Cafe Little Met, 18599 Old
Lorain Road. (Ward 21). Received.
File No. 465-98.
Re: New Application - 0771035 - BD
of Parks Commissioners Cleveland
Metro Park District dba Mastick
Woods Riverview Cafe, 19900 Puritas Road. (Ward 21). Received.
File No. ~466-98.
Re: Stock Transfer Application 3664846 - Hattons Inc. dba Arena
Bar, 3604-12 Euclid Avenue, first
floor. (Ward 5). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
by a rising vote.
Res. No. 483-98. Henry Jontony.
CONGRATULATORY RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection.
Res.
bons.
Res.
Rights
Res.

No.

484-98. Thomas

J.

Gib-

No. 485-98. Cleveland Human
Campaign.
No. 486-98. Walter P. Dever.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 467-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the Director of Finance to
obtain a substitute credit enhancement or liquidity facility for the
City’s
Subordinated
Income
Tax
Variable Rate Refundable Bonds,
Series 1994 and to execute agreements in connection therein.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 367-94 passed on March 14, 1994
(the Bond Legislation), the City of
Cleveland, Ohio (the Issuer) issued
its Subordinated Income Tax Variable Rate Refunding Bonds, Series
1994, dated June 2, 1994 (the Bonds)
which are currently outstanding in
the aggregate principal amount of
$72,800,000; and
Whereas, pursuant to the Bond
Legislation, the Director of Finance
obtained a credit facility from Union
Bank of Switzerland, New York
Branch and Credit Suisse, New York
Branch to enhance the credit and
liquidity of the Bonds and, in connection therewith, entered into a letter of credit and reimbursement
agreement; and
Whereas, the credit facility has a
stated expiration date which precedes the final maturity of the
Bonds, and it is therefore necessary
to extend or replace the credit facility from time to time in order to continue to provide the necessary liquidity and credit enhancement of
the Bonds; and
Whereas, from time to time the
cost of maintaining a credit or liquidity facility may be reduced by
obtaining a substitute credit or liquidity facility from a different credit facility provider; and
Whereas, it is necessary to authorize the Director of Finance to
obtain a substitute credit facility as
soon as possible in order to provide
for the delivery of such substitute
credit facility not less than five
business days prior to the expiration
date of the current credit facility
and to enable the Issuer to achieve
the desired debt service savings on
the Bonds, and, as a result, this ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health and safety and for the
usual and daily operation of a
municipal department;
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Substitute Credit or Liquidity Facilities.
If the Director of Finance, based
upon the written advice and recommendation of the Issuer’s financial
advisor, determines from time to
time that it is in the best interest
of the Issuer to obtain a substitute
credit or liquidity facility for the
Bonds, then the Director of Finance
is authorized to obtain one or more
substitute credit enhancement or liquidity facilities for the Bonds in
accordance with such recommendation and to execute, deliver and perform any items or agreements in
connection therewith, after the same
shall have been approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, which agreements may provide
for the payment of the cost of
obtaining each such substitute credit or liquidity facility, and the reimbursement of the provider thereof
for amounts drawn thereunder, from
the Pledged Revenues, as defined in
the Bond Legislation, and the Mayor

and the Director of Finance are
authorized to sign and deliver such
amendments to the Indenture of
Trust between the Issuer and Star
Bank,
National
Association,
as
Trustee, dated as of May 15, 1994
(the Indenture) as may be necessary to accommodate the requirements of the provider of any such
substitute credit facility, after the
same shall have been approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, provided that no
such agreement or amendment may
purport to entitle the credit or liquidity facility provider to payment
or reimbursement from any source
other than the Pledged Revenues,
and provided further that no such
agreement or amendment shall entitle the provider of any such credit
or liquidity facility to be paid interest at a rate higher than the maximum rate on the Bonds permitted
under the Bond Legislation or to
have the principal amount of any
Bonds for which such credit or liquidity facility provider has made
payment retired more rapidly than
would be called for by the Bond
Legislation.
Section 2. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage
of this ordinance were adopted in an
open meeting of this Council and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were
in meetings open to the public, in
compliance with law.
Section 3. Emergency Measure.
For the reasons set forth in the
preamble hereto, which are made a
part hereof, this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 468-98.
By
Councilmen
Westbrook
and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to clean and
maintain sewers, oil water separators, electrical vaults and associated
appurtenances,
including
testing
and disposal of waste materials, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two (2) years for the necessary
items of labor and materials necessary to clean and maintain storm
and sanitary sewers, oil water separators, electrical vaults and associated appurtenances, including testing and disposal of waste materials,

352

March 18, 1998
in the estimated sum of $200,000, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
two (2) years may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22531)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committee on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance, Law.
Ord. No. 469-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Rybka
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of implementing
Phase II of the sound insulation
program for homes in the vicinity of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport; authorizing the Director of
Port Control to enter into contract
for the making of such improvement; authorizing the Director to
employ professional consultants necessary to make such improvement;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into related agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of implementing Phase II of
the sound insulation improvement
program for homes in the vicinity of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, (the “Improvement”), for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, by contract duly let to
the lowest responsible bidder after
competitive bidding upon a unit
basis for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the Improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component

March 18, 1998
part of the Improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, or
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services
necessary
to
make
the
Improvement, including, but not limited to, architectural, engineering,
design, noise measurement, title and
recording, construction inspection,
program and construction management, environmental testing, hazardous materials removal and disposal, and administrative services.
The selection of said consultant or
consultants for such services shall
be made by the Board of Control
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The contract or contracts herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Port Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is further authorized to
enter into such other agreements as
are necessary to complete the planning
and
construction
of
the
Improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain such terms and conditions as the Director of Law determines necessary to best protect and
benefit the public interest.
Section 5. That the costs of the contracts authorized herein shall be paid
from Fund No. 60 SF 122, 61 SF 097
and from any funds or subfunds to
which are or may be credited any federal grants or federal passenger facilities charges authorized for the making of the above Improvement, and
the proceeds from the sale of any airport revenue bonds issued for a purpose which would include the above
Improvement, Request No. 22542.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 470-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 1998 Federal AIDS Prevention
Program; and to enter into contract
with various entities to implement
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $881,054,
and such other funds as may become
available during the grant year,
from the Ohio Department of Health,
to conduct the 1998 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program, for the purposes set forth in the application and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 470-98-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into contract with various entities,
including the Free Clinic of Greater
Cleveland, the AIDS Task Force of
Greater Cleveland, MetroHealth Systems Center for Community Health,
the Hispanic Urban Minority Alcohol
& Drug Abuse Outreach Program,
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Purpose Center, Health Museum of Cleveland,
the Cleveland Treatment Center and
the Open House, to implement the
Program as described in the application contained in the file, payable
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to Section 1 of this
ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 471-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of reclamite
asphalt rejuvenating agent, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of reclamite asphalt rejuvenating
agent in the estimated sum of
$500,000, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a peri-

353

5
od less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21353)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 472-98.
By Councilmen Coats, Zone and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 403.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 91-96,
passed March 18, 1996, relating to
traffic code misdemeanor classifications and penalties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 403.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 91-96, passed March 18,
1996, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 403.99 Traffic Code Misdemeanor Classifications and Penalties
(a)
(1)
Whoever violates any provision of this
Traffic Code or any regulation lawfully adopted pursuant thereto, for
which violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on
a second offense within one year
after the first offense, such person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the
first offense such person is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
When any person is found guilty of
a first offense for violation of Section 433.03, upon a finding that he
operated a motor vehicle in excess
of the posted speed limit by ten
miles an hour or more, such person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth
degree.
(RC
4511.99(D),
4513.99(C)). When any person is
found guilty of a violation of Section 433.07(b)(8), in addition to all
other penalties provided by law,
such person shall be fined two times
the usual amount imposed for the
violation.
(2)
Whoever violates division (a) of
Section 433.01, in addition to the
license suspension or revocation provided in RC 4507.16 and any disqualification
imposed
under
RC
4506.16 shall be punished as provided in division A., B., C. or D. below:

6
A. If, within six years of the
offense, the offender has not been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to
any violation of division (a) or (b)
of Section 433.01, RC 4511.19, a
municipal
ordinance
relating
to
operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of
abuse, a municipal ordinance relating to operating a vehicle with a
prohibited concentration of alcohol
in the blood, breath, or urine, RC
2903.04 in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in Division (D) of
that section, or RC 2903.06, 2903.07,
or 2903.08 or a municipal ordinance
that is substantially similar to RC
2903.07 in a case in which the jury
or judge found that the offender
was under the influence of alcohol,
a drug of abuse, or alcohol and a
drug of abuse, the offender is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and the court shall sentence the
offender to a term of imprisonment
of three consecutive days and may
sentence the offender pursuant to
division (b) of Section 403.99 to a
longer term of imprisonment. In
addition, the court shall impose
upon the offender a fine of not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000).
The court may suspend the execution of the mandatory three consecutive days of imprisonment that
it is required to impose by this division, if the court, in lieu of the suspended term of imprisonment, places
the
offender
on
probation
and
requires the offender to attend, for
three consecutive days, a drivers’
intervention program that is certified pursuant to RC 3793.10. The
court also may suspend the execution of any part of the mandatory
three consecutive days of imprisonment that it is required to impose
by this division, if the court places
the offender on probation for part of
the three consecutive days; requires
the offender to attend, for that part
of the three consecutive days, a drivers’ intervention program that is
certified pursuant to RC 3793.10; and
sentences the offender to a term of
imprisonment equal to the remainder of the three consecutive days
that the offender does not spend
attending the drivers’ intervention
program. The court may require the
offender, as a condition of probation, to attend and satisfactorily
complete any treatment or education
programs that comply with the minimum standards adopted pursuant to
RC Chapter 3793, by the Director of
Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services, in addition to the required
attendance at a drivers’ intervention
program, that the operators of the
drivers’ intervention program determine that the offender should attend
and to report periodically to the
court on his progress in the programs. The court also may impose
any other conditions of probation on
the offender that it considers necessary.
B. If, within six years of the
offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of division (a) or (b) of
Section 433.01, RC 4511.19, a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the blood,
breath, or urine, RC 2903.04 in a case

The City Record
in which the offender was subject
to the sanctions described in Division (D) of that section, or RC
2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to RC 2903.07 in a
case in which the jury or judge
found that the offender was under
the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of
abuse, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and
the court shall sentence the offender to a term of imprisonment of ten
consecutive days and may sentence
the offender pursuant to division
(b) of Section 403.99 to a longer
term of imprisonment. In addition,
the court shall impose upon the
offender a fine of not less than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) and
not more than one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500). In addition
to any other sentence that it imposes upon the offender, the court may
require the offender to attend a drivers’ intervention program that is
certified pursuant to RC 3793.10. If
the officials of the drivers’ intervention program determine that the
offender is alcohol dependent, they
shall notify the court, and the court
shall order the offender to obtain
treatment through an alcohol and
drug addiction program authorized
by RC 3793.02. The cost of the treatment shall be paid by the offender.
C. If, within six years of the
offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two
violations of division (a) or (b) of
Section 433.01, RC 4511.19, a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the blood,
breath or urine, RC 2903.04 in a case
in which the offender was subject
to the sanctions described in Division (D) of that section, or RC
2903.06, 2903.07, 2903.08 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially
similar to RC 2903.07 in a case in
which the jury or judge found that
the offender was under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse, the
court shall sentence the offender to
a term of imprisonment of thirty
consecutive days and may sentence
the offender to a longer definite
term of imprisonment of not more
than one year. In addition, the court
shall impose upon the offender a
fine of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and not more than
two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500).
In addition to any other sentence
that it imposes upon the offender,
the court shall require the offender
to attend an alcohol and drug addiction program authorized by RC
3793.02. The cost of the treatment
shall be paid by the offender. If the
court determines that the offender is
unable to pay the cost of his attendance at the treatment program, the
court may order that the payment of
the cost of the offender’s attendance
at the treatment program be made
from the court’s indigent drivers
alcohol treatment fund, created pursuant to division (N) of RC 4511.191.
D. If, within five years of the
offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three
or more violations of division (a) or
(b) of Section 433.01 and RC 4511.19,
a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of

354

March 18, 1998
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of
abuse, a municipal ordinance relating to operating a vehicle with a
prohibited concentration of alcohol
in the blood, breath, or urine, RC
2903.04 in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in Division (D) of
that section, or RC 2903.06, 2903.07,
or 2903.08 or a municipal ordinance
that is substantially similar to RC
2903.07 in a case in which the jury
or judge found that the offender
was under the influence of alcohol,
a drug of abuse, or alcohol and a
drug of abuse, the court shall sentence the offender to a term of
imprisonment of sixty consecutive
days and may sentence the offender
to a longer definite term of imprisonment of not more than one year.
In addition and notwithstanding
division (b) of Section 403.99, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) nor more
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
In addition to any other sentence
that it imposes upon the offender,
the court shall require the offender
to attend an alcohol and drug addiction program authorized by RC
3793.02. The cost of the treatment
shall be paid by the offender. If the
court determines that the offender is
unable to pay the cost of his attendance at the treatment program, the
court may order that the payment of
the cost of the offender’s attendance
at the treatment program be made
from the court’s indigent drivers
alcohol treatment fund, created pursuant to division (N) of RC 4511.191.
E. Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) of
each fine imposed pursuant to divisions (a) (2)A., B., C. or D. of this
Section shall be deposited into the
indigent drivers alcohol treatment
fund of the court, created pursuant
to division (N) of RC 4511.191.
F. Upon a showing that imprisonment would seriously affect the ability of an offender sentenced pursuant to divisions (a) (2)A. to D. of
this section to continue his employment, the court may authorize that
the offender be granted work release
from imprisonment after the offender has served the three, ten, thirty,
or sixty consecutive days of imprisonment that the court is required by
divisions (a) (2)A. to D. of this Section to impose. No court shall authorize work release from imprisonment
during the three, ten, thirty, or sixty
consecutive days of imprisonment
that the court is required by divisions (a) (2)A. to D. of this section
to impose. The duration of the work
release shall not exceed the time necessary each day for the offender to
commute to and from the place of
employment and the place of imprisonment and the time actually spent
under employment.
G. Notwithstanding any section of
the Revised Code or this Traffic
Code that authorizes suspension of
the imposition or execution of a sentence or the placement of an offender in any treatment program in lieu
of imprisonment, no court shall suspend the ten, thirty, or sixty consecutive
days
of
imprisonment
required to be imposed by divisions
(a) (2)B. to D. of this section or
place an offender who is sentenced
pursuant to division (a) (2)B. to D.
of this section in any treatment program in lieu of imprisonment until
after the offender has served the
ten, thirty, or sixty consecutive days
of imprisonment required to be
imposed
pursuant
to
division
(a)(2)B. to D. of this section.

The City Record

March 18, 1998
Notwithstanding any section of
the Revised Code or this Traffic
Code that authorizes the suspension
of the imposition or execution of a
sentence or the placement of an
offender in any treatment program
in lieu of imprisonment, no court,
except as specifically authorized by
division (a) (2)A. of this section,
shall suspend the three consecutive
days of imprisonment required to be
imposed by division (a) (2)A. of this
section or place an offender who is
sentenced pursuant to division (a)
(2)A. of this section in any treatment program in lieu of imprisonment until after the offender has
served the three consecutive days of
imprisonment
required
to
be
imposed pursuant to division (a)
(2)A. of this section.
H. No court shall sentence an
offender to an alcohol treatment program pursuant to division (a) (2)A.
to D. of this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards adopted pursuant to RC Chapter 3793. by the
director of alcohol and drug addiction services (RC 4511.99(A)).
I. As used in this section, “three
consecutive days’’ means seventytwo consecutive hours. (RC 4511.991)
(3)
Whoever violates division (b) of Section 433.01
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(4)
Whoever violates Section 433.07 is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(5)
Whoever
violates any provision of Sections
435.01 to 435.07, inclusive, is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(6)
Whoever violates
any provision of Sections 435.15 to
435.17, inclusive, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(7)
Whoever violates division (b) of
Section 403.02 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(8)
Whoever violates division (a) of
Section 431.38 may be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(9)
Whoever violates division
(e) of Section 411.01 is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(b)
Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of this Traffic Code shall be imprisoned for a definite term or fined, or
both, which term of imprisonment
and fine shall be fixed by the court
as provided in this section.
Misdemeanor
Classification
Maximum
Imprisonment
Term
Maximum
Fine
1st degree
6 months
$1,000.00
2nd degree
90 days
750.00
3rd degree
60 days
500.00
4th degree
30 days
250.00
Minor
None
100.00
(RC 2929.21)
(c)
(1) The trial judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, in addition to
or independent of all other penalties

provided by law or ordinance, shall
suspend for not less than thirty days
nor more than three years or revoke
the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges of any person
who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to any of the following:
A. Division (a) of Section 431.38:
B. Sections 435.01 to 435.07, inclusive:
The trial judge, in addition to suspensions or revocations of licenses,
permits, or privileges pursuant to
this division and in addition to or
independent of all other penalties
provided by law or by ordinance,
shall impose a suspended jail sentence of not to exceed six months,
if
that
imprisonment
was
not
imposed for the offense for which
the person was convicted.
(2) The trial judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, in addition to
or independent of all other penalties
provided by law or ordinance, shall
suspend or revoke the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges of any person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (b) of Section 433.01. The
length of the suspension or revocation imposed by the trial judge upon
a person who is convicted or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (b)
of Section 433.01 shall be the same
as that imposed pursuant to division
(B) of RC 4507.16 upon a person who
is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of RC 4511.19, or a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the blood,
breath, or urine.
(3) The trial judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court may, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, suspend
the license of any person for not
more than fifteen days who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of operating a motor vehicle
faster than five miles per hour in
excess of the prima-facie speed
limits specified in Section 433.03
relating to passing a school building or grounds or operating a
motor vehicle in a residential district.
For any subsequent conviction of
any such provision, the trial judge
shall, in addition to or independent
of all other penalties provided by
law, suspend the license of any person for not more than thirty days
who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to any offense specified in this division. The first five days may not be
suspended by the Court.
Section 2. That existing Section
403.99 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 91-96, passed March
18, 1996, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance.

355

7
Ord. No. 473-98.
By Councilmen Coats, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 13713-15 McElhatten
Avenue to Frances R. Carson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 112-01-044,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Frances R. Carson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 112-01-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
52 in Henry C. Wick Subdivision of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 351
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 28 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Northerly side of
McElhatten
Avenue,
N.E.
and
extending back of equal width 120
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

8
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 474-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
a grant from the State of Ohio
Department of Development to conduct the State Home Weatherization
Assistance Program and to enter
into contract with various organizations, individual landlords, tenants
and contractors for the purpose of
providing weatherization assistance
to low-income City residents through
the
State
Home
Weatherization
Assistance Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a
grant
in
the
amount
of
$2,066,523.00 from the State of Ohio
Department of Development, to conduct the State Home Weatherization
Assistance Program and to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
said grant; and that said funds be
and they hereby are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
application for said grant.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with individual landlords, tenants, contractors, and various non-profit organizations for the provision of weatherization assistance to low-income City
residents through the State Home
Weatherization Assistance Program.
Section 3. That the cost of said
contracts shall not exceed, in the
aggregate, $2,066,523.00 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF 868, 13
SF 869 and 13 SF 870.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 475-98.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1777 Crawford Road
and 1790 East 86th Street to Albert
L. Owens and Cynthia L. Owens.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

The City Record
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 119-03-070
and
119-03-096,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Albert L. Owens and Cynthia L.
Owens.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-03-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
20 in the Henrietta E. Weatherhead
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 391, 392, 399
and 400, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 33 of Maps, Page 13
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 55 feet front on the Southeasterly line of Crawford Road, N.E.,
and extending back 114.32 feet deep
on the Southwesterly line, 114.32 feet
deep on the Northeasterly line,
which is also the Southwesterly line
of East 86th Street, and 55 feet wide
and in the rear, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P.P. No. 119-03-096
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 19 in the Henrietta E.
Weatherhead Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 391, 392, 399 and 400, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 33
of Maps, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County
Records,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southwest line
of East 86th Street, 32 feet wide, at
the most Easterly corner of Sublot
No. 20; thence along the broken
Southwesterly line of East 86th
Street, 146.39 feet to a point in the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 19; thence
Westerly 65.29 feet to a point in the
Westerly line of said Sublot; thence
Northerly, along said Westerly line
of Sublot No. 19 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Northeasterly along the Northwesterly line of
Sublot No. 19, 55 feet to a place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to restrictions recited in
Volume 111, Page 9 and Volume 111,
Page
43
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records filed April 6, 1965.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordi-

356

March 18, 1998
nance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 476-98.
By Councilmen Melena, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1437 West 58th Street
to
Cleveland
Housing
Network,
Incorporated.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 002-15-018,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Incorporated.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:

March 18, 1998
P.P. No. 002-15-018
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
10 in Charles G. Summers and
William B. Wintertons Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 49 and 50, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of West 58th Street
(formerly
Waverly
Street),
and
extending back of equal width 169
feet 1 inch, as appears by said plat.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 477-98.
By Mayor White and Councilmen
Willis, Jackson, Rybka and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor and the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Economic Development to enter
into a Purchase Agreement with
Metropolitan Savings Bank of Cleveland (“Metropolitan”) for approximately 15.4 acres of City-owned
property located in the Village of
Highland Hills, with an option to
purchase an additional 8.7 acres
within the first five years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
(the
“City”)
desires
to
develop
Cleveland
Enterprise
Park
on
approximately 80 acres of land (the
“Zone”) situated in the Village of
Highland Hills (the “Village”) along
Harvard Road between Green and
Northfield Roads (the “Property”),
in accordance with a Master Plan
for the commercial development of
the Property; and
Whereas, the City, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1235-95,
passed October 23, 1995, and the Village, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance
Nos.
1995-20,
passed

The City Record
August 14, 1995, and Ordinance No.
1995-28, passed December 13, 1995,
entered into a Joint Development
Economic Zone Agreement (“J.D.A.”)
for the Zone; and
Whereas,
Metropolitan
Savings
Bank of Cleveland (“Metropolitan”)
has proposed to purchase from the
City 15.4 acres of land in order to
construct a multi-story office building to serve as its corporate headquarters, which Metropolitan estimates will house 200 Metropolitan
employees; and
Whereas, the J.D.A. requires the
City and Village to share income
tax revenue such that the City will
receive seventy-five percent (75%)
of net income taxes of employees
relocated to the Zone from the City
and fifty percent (50%) of net
income taxes of all other employees
within the Zone; and
Whereas, Metropolitan, in consideration for payment of $43,500.00
annually, and other valuable consideration, will receive an option to
purchase an additional 8.7 acres of
land on which it may construct a
second multi-story office building to
serve a similar purpose; and
Whereas, Metropolitan projects a
need for a second such building at
this location, with the two buildings
housing an estimated total of 400
Metropolitan employees; and
Whereas, the portions of the Property to be sold or optioned for sale
to
Metropolitan
are
no
longer
needed for public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Mayor of the City of
Cleveland and the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and
Economic
Development
are
authorized to enter into a Project
Agreement to sell the property
referred to as “Light Industrial Site
2”, the legal description of which is
contained in File No. 477-98-A (“Sale
Parcel”) to Metropolitan for the
development of an office building to
serve as its corporate headquarters,
which property is determined to be
no longer needed for public use.
Section 2. That the Project Agreement shall provide that Metropolitan
shall have an option to purchase the
property referred to as “Light Industrial Site 1A”, the legal description
of which is contained in the File referenced in Section 1 hereof (“Option
Parcel”), which option expires at the
end of the “Option Period” which
shall be the first 5 years from the
date of the recording of conveyance
of the Sale Parcel from the City to
Metropolitan (“Conveyance Date”),
which property is determined to be
no longer needed for public use.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
Sale Property Parcel described in
Section 1 of this ordinance at a of
price not less than One Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) per
acre of the Sale Parcel taking into
account all restrictions, and encumbrances placed by the City in the
deed of conveyance.
Section 4. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and

357

9
Supplies is authorized to sell the
Option Parcel to Metropolitan during the Option Period at a price of
not less than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) per acre,
which this Council determines to be
the fair market value of the Option
Parcel during the Option Period,
taking into account all restrictions
and encumbrances placed by the
City of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance.
Section 5. That the conveyances to
Metropolitan shall be made by official quitclaim deed to be prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland which quitclaim
deed shall contain such provisions
as deemed necessary by the Director of Law to protect the public
interest.
Section 6. That all proceeds from
the sale of the Sale Parcel and the
Option Parcel shall be paid into
Fund No. 17 SF 684, to be credited
toward costs of certain infrastructure, roads and utilities to the
Zone.
Section 7. That the Project Agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law, and shall contain a provision
requiring
Metropolitan
to
complete construction of a multistory office building to serve as its
corporate headquarters on the Sale
Parcel within five (5) years of the
Conveyance Date, or the Sale Parcel
shall revert to the City. The Project
Agreement shall further contain a
provision requiring Metropolitan to
complete construction of a second
multi-story office building to serve
a similar purpose within five (5)
years from the date of conveyance
of the Option Parcel to Metropolitan,
or the Option Parcel shall revert to
the City.
Section 8. That the Project Agreement may also provide for the City
to pay the cost of site preparation
and the cost of installation of certain infrastructure, roads, and utilities, including relocation of utilities,
within the Zone, which costs shall
be paid out of Fund No. 17 SF 684,
in an amount equal to or not to
exceed the proceeds from the sale to
Metropolitan of the Sale Parcel and
Option Parcel.
Section 9. That the Project Agreement shall contain the following
Equal
Employment
Opportunity,
Affirmative Action, and MBE/FBE
employment
goals:
Metropolitan
shall use best efforts to ensure (i)
construction contracts, service contracts, professional services contracts, and supplies and purchases
orders let on the project by it, it’s
developer or by its general contractor by 30% certified Minority Business Enterprises (“MBE”) and 10%
certified Female Business Enterprises (“FBE”); and (ii) construction
jobs created by the project be provided to at least 22.6% minorities in
each trade, and 6.9% females in
each trade.
Section 10. That the Mayor and
Directors of Law, Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and Economic Development are authorized to prepare
and execute easements to Cleveland
Electric Illuminating Company, East
Ohio Gas Company, Ameritech Ohio
Corporations, and Viacom Cablevision of Cleveland, or Village designated
successor
cable
television
franchisee,
their
successors
and
assigns, to provide necessary services to the Zone, and a temporary
easement for purposes of ingress
and egress to the Sale Parcel to Metropolitan.

10
Section 11. That the Mayor, Director of Law, Parks, Recreation and
Properties and Economic Development are authorized to execute such
documents, instruments, and certificates and take such other actions as
are necessary or appropriate to
effectuate and carry out the terms
of the Project Agreement authorized
pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 12. That the Mayor, Director of Law, Parks, Recreation and
Properties and Economic Development are authorized to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits,
engineering
and
architectural consultants, and other
professional services necessary or
appropriate to effectuate and carry
out the terms of the Project Agreement authorized pursuant to this
ordinance, and to effectuate site
preparation and the installation of
the infrastructure, roads and utilities, including utilities relocation,
associated with the Zone. These fees
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
305.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation, Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 478-98.
By Mayor White and Councilmen
Willis, Jackson, Rybka and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor and the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Economic Development to enter
into a Purchase Agreement with
OfficeMax, Inc. for approximately
34.4 acres of City-owned property
located in the Village of Highland
Hills.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
(the
“City”)
desires
to
develop
Cleveland
Enterprise
Park
on
approximately 80 acres of land (the
“Zone”) situated in the Village of
Highland Hills (the “Village”) along
Harvard Road between Green and
Northfield Roads (the “Property”),
in accordance with a Master Plan
for the commercial development of
the Property; and
Whereas, the City, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1235-95,
passed October 23, 1995, and the Village, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance
Nos.
1995-20,
passed
August 14, 1995, and Ordinance No.
1995-28, passed December 13, 1995,
entered into a Joint Development
Economic Zone Agreement (“J.D.A.”)
for the Zone; and
Whereas, OfficeMax, Inc. has proposed to purchase from the City 34.4
acres of land in order to construct
a multi-story office building, which
OfficeMax, Inc. estimates will house
400 - 600 OfficeMax, Inc. employees;
and
Whereas, the J.D.A. requires the
City and Village, share income tax
revenue such that the City will
receive seventy-five percent (75%)
of net income taxes of employees

The City Record
relocated to the Zone from the City
and fifty percent (50%) of net
income taxes of all other employees
within the Zone; and
Whereas, the portions of the Property to be sold to OfficeMax, Inc. are
no longer needed for public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Mayor of the City of
Cleveland and the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and
Economic
Development
are
authorized to enter into a Project
Agreement to sell the following
described property to OfficeMax,
Inc. for the development of an office
building, which property is determined to be no longer needed for
public use:
[Insert Legal Description]
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
Sale Parcel described in Section 1 of
this ordinance at a price of Two Million,
Two
Hundred
Ninety-three
Thousand,
Seven
Hundred
and
Twenty-two Dollars ($2,293,722.00),
taking into account all restrictions,
and encumbrances placed by the
City of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyances to
OfficeMax, Inc. shall be made by
official quitclaim deed to be prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland, which quitclaim deed shall contain such provisions as deemed necessary by the
Director of Law to protect the public interest.
Section 4. That all proceeds from
the sale of the Sale Parcel shall be
paid into Fund No. 17 SF 684, to be
credited toward costs of site preparation and certain infrastructure,
roads and utilities, including relocation of utilities, within the Zone.
Section 5. That the Project Agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, and shall contain
a provision requiring OfficeMax,
Inc. to complete construction of a
multi-story office building within
five (5) years of the conveyance
date or the Sale Parcel shall revert
to the City.
Section 6. That the Project Agreement may also provide for the City
to pay for site preparation and the
installation of certain infrastructure, roads, and utilities, including
relocation of utilities, within the
Zone, which costs shall be paid out
of Fund No. 17 SF 684.
Section 7. That the Project Agreement shall contain the following
Equal
Employment
Opportunity,
Affirmative Action, and MBE/FBE
employment goals: OfficeMax, Inc.
shall use best efforts to ensure (i)
construction contracts, service contracts, professional services contracts, and supplies and purchases
orders let on the project by it, it’s
developer or by its general contractor by 30% certified Minority Business Enterprises (“MBE”) and 10%
certified Female Business Enterprises (“FBE”); and (ii) construction
jobs created by the project be pro-

358

March 18, 1998
vided to at least 22.6% minorities in
each trade, and 6.9% females in
each trade.
Section 8. That the Mayor and
Directors of Law, Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and Economic Development are authorized to prepare
and execute easements to Cleveland
Electric Illuminating Company, East
Ohio Gas Company, Ameritech Ohio
Corporation, and Viacom Cablevision of Cleveland, or Village designated
successor
cable
television
franchisee,
their
successors
and
assigns, to provide necessary services to the Zone, and a temporary
easement for purposes of ingress
and egress to the Sale Parcel to
OfficeMax, Inc.
Section 9. That it is hereby determined to make such public improvements to the property as are necessary and desirable to prepare the
property for proposed development
as contemplated in the Project
Agreement with OfficeMax, Inc.,
which public improvements may
include, without limitation, building
demolition, environmental testing
and materials disposal, construction
and installation of paving, curbing,
gutters,
grading,
excavation,
drainage,
walls,
sewers,
piping,
manholes, catch basins, lighting,
utilities, streetscaping, traffic signals, signage, sidewalks, erosion
controls, subbases, bike paths, and
spillways (“Improvements”), for the
Department of Public Service Division of Engineering and Construction, and/or the Department of Economic
Development,
by
contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the Improvements.
Section 10. That the Director of
Economic Development and/or Public Service are hereby authorized to
enter into a contract or contracts for
the making of the Improvements
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the Improvements, provided, however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
components part of the Improvements may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination of such trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 11. That the Mayor, and/or
the Directors of Economic Development and/or Public Service are hereby authorized to enter into an agreement with the Village of Highland
Hills within which the City of Cleveland agrees to pay the local matching
share
commitment
for
any
grants or loans received from the
Ohio Public Works Commission for
the financing of the Improvements
to the Development Area, and in
which the Village of Highland Hills
and the City determine the administration of said grants or loans
received
from
the
Ohio
Public
Works Commission. Said agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law of the City of Cleveland, and
shall contain such terms and conditions as the Director of Law determines are necessary or appropriate
to protect the interests of the City,
including a provision whereby the
City must approve all plans for the
construction of the Improvements to
be funded by Ohio Public Works
Commission
and
local
matching
share commitment.
Section 12. That the Directors of
Economic Development and/or Public Service are further authorized to
employ by contract one or more pro-

March 18, 1998
fessional engineering consultants,
surveyors,
architects,
planners,
designers,
environmental
consultants and/or construction managers,
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design, plan and implement the
Improvements. The selection of an
engineering consultant to design the
Improvements
to
be
funded
by
grants or loans from the Ohio Public Works Commission, the State of
Ohio, and the local matching share
commitment may be made by direct
contract to the Registered Professional Engineer employed by the
Village of Highland Hills. The selection of other consultant, consultants,
or other professional or professionals for such services shall be made
by the Board of Control upon the
nomination of the Directors of Economic Development and/or Public
Service from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Directors of Economic Development
and/or Public Service for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Economic Development
and/or Public Service, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 13. That the Mayor or his
designee is authorized to enter into
such agreements and to take such
actions as may be necessary to
accept grants, loans and gifts from
the State of Ohio or other governmental entities for the purpose of
funding the Improvements. Such
grants, loans, and gifts shall be
deposited into Fund No. 17 SF 684.
Section 14. That the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute a plat dedicating to public use the property
upon which and under which certain
of the Improvements shall be constructed, including but not limited to
all roadways through the Zone.
Section 15. That the costs of the
Improvements, services and agreements authorized herein shall be
paid from Fund No. 17 SF 684. Prior
legislation to the contrary not withstanding, expenditures from Fund 17
SF 684 shall not exceed the total of
all funds received by the City from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
and the State of Ohio for Improvements, services, and agreements contemplated in this Ordinance plus
any proceeds from the sale of land
within the Zone, deposited in Fund
17 SF 684. Any proceeds from the
sale, lease, or other disposition of
real property remaining in Fund No.
17 SF 684 after payment of Expenditures as authorized herein, shall
be transferred into NDIF Fund No.
10 SF 501 to be used solely for economic development related property
acquisitions.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Economic Development, City Planning Com-

The City Record
mission, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation, Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 480-98.
By Councilmen Dolan, Sweeney,
Willis and Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the Board of Education of the Cleveland City School
District for the construction and
maintenance of two ball diamonds
at
Clara
Westropp
Elementary
School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Board of Education of the Cleveland City School
District for the construction and
maintenance of two ball diamonds
at
Clara
Westropp
Elementary
School. Said agreement shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as are acceptable to the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 479-98.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage
in
peddling in Ward 5. (John
Nichols/Nation of Islam)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to peddle upon the public
rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in peddling in the public rights of
way of Ward 5: John Nichols/Nation
of Islam.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified

359

11
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 481-98.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer
of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 15239 Triskett
Ave., and repealing Res. No. 152197, objecting to said transfer of
ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 15239
Triskett Ave., by Res. No. 1521-97,
adopted August 13, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 15239 Triskett
Ave., be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 1521-97, containing said objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 482-98.
By Councilman Robinson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 11703 Union Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit, to
Permit No. 9154910, Union Discount
Inc., DBA Union Discount, 11703
Union Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44105;
and

12
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit, to
Permit No. 9154910, Union Discount
Inc., DBA Union Discount, 11703
Union Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 194-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations for the current expenses and other expenditures of
the City of Cleveland for the year

The City Record
1998.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, lines 6 and 7,
strike “Fifty three million six hundred sixteen thousand eight hundred
thirty one dollars ($53,616,831)” and
insert in lieu thereof “Fifty three
million four hundred sixteen thousand eight hundred thirty one dollars ($53,416,831)”.
2. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Municipal Court”,
strike “21,607,163” and insert in lieu
thereof “21,657,163”.
3. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Department of Public Safety”, strike “240,462,396” and
insert in lieu thereof “240,770,246”.
4. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Department of Public Service”, strike “31,506,175” and
insert in lieu thereof “31,777,390”.
5. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Department of
Parks, Recreation & Properties”,
strike “35,493,790” and insert in lieu
thereof “35,523,790”.
6. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Urban Planning &
Development”, strike “10,391,730” and
insert in lieu thereof “10,160,980”.
7. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Support Functions”,
strike “29,518,326” and insert in lieu
thereof “29,290,011”; and at “Transfers
to
Other
Funds”
strike
“24,924,478” and insert in lieu thereof “$24,724,478”.
8. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “Special Revenue
Funds”, strike “53,616,831” and insert
in lieu thereof “53,416,831”.
9. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“APPROPRIATION
FOR
THE
YEAR 1998”, at “TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS
FOR
1998”,
strike
“979,767,314” and insert in lieu thereof “979,567,314”.
10. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“MUNICIPAL COURT”, at “Municipal
Court — Housing Division”, strike
“1,694,170” and insert in lieu thereof
“$1,744,170”; and at “I Personnel and
Related
Expenses”,
strike
“$1,610,300” and insert in lieu thereof “$1,660,300”.
11. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL
MUNICIPAL
COURT”,
strike “$21,607,163” in both places,
and insert “$21,657,163”, in both
places.
12. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Public Safety Administration”,
strike
“$10,085,984;
and
insert in lieu thereof “$9,943,484”;
and at “I Personnel and Related Expenses”, strike “$9,268,767” and insert
in lieu thereof “$9,126,267”.
13. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Division of Police”, strike
“$145,599,571” and insert in lieu
thereof “$145,974,571”; and at “I Personnel
and
Related
Expenses”,
strike “$134,455,901” and insert in
lieu thereof “$134,830,901”.
14. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Division of Traffic Engineering”
strike
“$3,356,181”
and
insert in lieu thereof “$3,404,931”;
and at “I Personnel and Related
Expenses”, strike “$2,589,237” and
insert in lieu thereof “$2,637,987”.

360

March 18, 1998
15. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Division of Dog Pound”,
strike “$665,816” and insert in lieu
thereof “$692,416”; and at “I Personnel and Related Expenses”, strike
“$524,382” and insert in lieu thereof
“$550,982”.
16. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, strike “$240,462,396”
in
both
places,
and
insert
“$240,770,246”, in both places.
17. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE”; at “Division of Waste Collection
and
Disposal”,
strike
“$25,987,826” and insert in lieu thereof “$26,259,041”; and at “I Personnel
and
Related
Expenses”,
strike
“$14,431,453” and insert in lieu thereof “$14,702,668”.
18. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE”, strike “$31,506,175”
in
both
places,
and
insert
“$31,777,390”, in both places.
19. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT
OF
PARKS,
RECREATION AND PROPERTIES”,
at “Division of Recreation”, strike
“$9,976,278” and insert in lieu thereof “$10,006,278”; and at “I Personnel
and
Related
Expenses”,
strike
“$2,792,864” and insert in lieu thereof “$2,822,864”.
20. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL
DEPARTMENT
OF
PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES”, strike “$35,493,790” in both
places, and insert “$35,523,790”, in
both places.
21. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT”, at “Division of
Building
and
Housing”,
strike
“$5,994,327” and insert in lieu thereof “$5,859,327”; and at “I Personnel
and
Related
Expenses”,
strike
“$5,460,905” and insert in lieu thereof “$5,325,905”.
22. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT”, at “Division of
Neighborhood Development”, strike
“$404,267” and insert in lieu thereof
“$321,767”; and at “I Personnel and
Related Expenses”, strike “$212,267”
and insert in lieu thereof $129,767”.
23. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT”, strike “$6,658,796” in both
places, and insert “$6,441,296”, in
both places.
24. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT
OF
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT”,
at
“Economic
Development”, strike $1,306,632” and
insert in lieu thereof “$1,256,632”;
and at II Other Expenses”, strike
“$142,279” and insert in lieu thereof
“$92,279”.
25. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT”,
strike
“$1,306,632” in both places, and insert
“$1,256,632”, in both places.
26. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“DEPARTMENT
OF
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT” at “City Planning
Commission”, strike “$1,218,684” and
insert in lieu thereof “$1,255,434”;
and at “I Personnel and Related
Expenses”, strike “$1,155,593” and
insert in lieu thereof “$1,192,343”.
27. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL URBAN PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT”,
strike
“$10,391,730” in both places, and
insert “$10,160,980”, in both places.
28. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION” at “DEPARTMENT OF
FINANCE”,
at
“Division
of
Accounts”, strike “$1,177,632” and

March 18, 1998
insert in lieu thereof “$1,136,817”;
and at “I Personnel and Related
Expenses”,
strike
“$791,219”
and
insert in lieu thereof “$750,404”.
29. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION” at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT
OF
FINANCE”,
strike
“$5,020,746” in both places, and insert
“$4,979,931”, in both places.
30. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION” at “Office of Budget &
Management-Budget Admin.”, strike
“$510,004” and insert in lieu thereof
“$472,504”; and at “I Personnel and
Related Expenses”, strike “$449,819”
and insert in lieu thereof “$412,319”.
31. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION” at “Department Law”,
strike “$7,542,862” and insert in lieu
thereof “$7,392,862”; and at “II Other
Expenses”, strike $2,496,463” and
insert in lieu thereof “$2,346,463”.
32. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION” at “TOTAL FINANCE
AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION”,
strike “$13,073,612” in both places,
and insert “$12,845,297”, in both
places.
33. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL
SUPPORT
FUNCTIONS”,
strike “$29,518,326” in both places,
and
insert
in
lieu
thereof
“$29,290,011” in both places.
34. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TRANSFERS TO OTHER FUNDS”,
strike “$24,924,478” and insert in lieu
thereof “ $24,724,478”; and at “II Other
Expenses”, strike “$24,924,478” and
insert in lieu thereof “$24,724,478”.
35. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“SPECIAL REVENUE FUND”, at
“Street Construction, Maintenance &
Repair Fund”, strike “$22,928,389”
and
insert
in
lieu
thereof
“$22,728,389”;
and
at
“II
Other
Expenses”, strike “$9,880,000” and
insert in lieu thereof “$9,680,000”.
36. In Section 1, at Section entitled
“TOTAL
SPECIAL
REVENUE
FUNDS”, strike “$53,616,831” in both
places, and insert in lieu thereof
“$53,416,831”, in both places.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 195-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply for, and the
Director of Community Development
to accept, a XXIV year grant pursuant to Title I of the Housing and
Community
Development
Act
of
1974; and authorizing the Director of
Community Development to apply
for and accept grants from the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development for the 1998
Federal HOME Grant Program, and
1998 Emergency Shelter Program,
and the Housing Opportunities for
Persons with AIDS Program.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 2, at the end, insert
the following:
“This Council hereby approves the
Projected Use of Funds detailed in
said file, including the sum of One
Million Dollars ($1,000,000) to be
used for HIV/AIDS prevention, education, and assistance programs.”
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 286-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by department request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of lumber, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 287-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, to enter into contract with the Legal Aid Society of
Cleveland for legal services necessary to defend indigents charged
with violation of ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, provided such violation may result in incarceration,
for the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 288-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of office supplies, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of one
year, with one option to renew for
two consecutive years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 7, strike “two
consecutive years” and insert in lieu
thereof “one additional year”; and in
Section 1, lines 6 and 7, strike “an
additional
two-year
consecutive
term” and insert in lieu thereof “one
additional year”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 289-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to pay the cost of extraction of 1996 Ohio income tax master
file data.

361

13
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 291-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of standard
wire, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 292-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of typewriter maintenance and repair, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 293-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of pole painting, for the various divisions of City
government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 435-98.
By Councilmen Johnson and Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio State legislature to adopt
legislation that will permit judges
in the Housing Court Division of
Municipal Court to refer certain
criminal cases to magistrates.
Relieved of Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Legislation.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 20. Nays 1.
Those voting yea were: Councilmen Westbrook, Britt, Cimperman,
Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis,
Melena,
Moran, Patmon, Polensek, Robinson,
Rybka,
Sweeney,
White,
Willis,
Zone. Those voting nay were: Councilman Dolan.

The City Record

14

March 18, 1998

APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 1998
(SECOND READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCE)
ORDINANCE NO. 194-98
Ord. No. 194-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations for the current expenses and other expenditures of the City
of Cleveland for the year 1998.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1998, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Four hundred eleven million six hundred thirty four thousand four hundred fifty five dollars
($411,634,455) from the General Fund;
The sum of Fifty three million four hundred sixteen thousand eight hundred thirty one dollars ($53,416,831)
from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty three million four hundred three thousand four hundred seventy two dollars ($23,403,472)
from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Four hundred forty one million seven hundred thirteen thousand four hundred eighty three dollars
($441,713,483) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Six million four hundred sixty two thousand three hundred seventy four dollars ($6,462,374) from
the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Forty two million nine hundred thirty six thousand six hundred ninty nine dollars ($42,936,699)
from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified as File No. 194-98-A in the aggregate
amount for each department as follows:
APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 1998
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Municipal Court
Executive Branch
Office of the Mayor
Department of Public Safety
Community Relations Board
Department of Public Service
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties
Boxing & Wrestling Commission
Urban Planning & Development
Department of Public Health
Department of Aging
Support Functions
Transfers to Other Funds

$4,134,046
21,657,163
1,536,065
240,770,246
904,861
31,777,390
35,523,790
8,242
10,160,980
10,871,050
276,133
29,290,011
24,724,478

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$385,893,246
$411,634,455

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

$53,416,831
23,403,472
441,713,483
6,462,374
42,936,699

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1998

$979,567,314

GENERAL GOVERNMENT
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,791,219
1,342,827

$4,134,046

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

$4,134,046

$4,134,046

MUNICIPAL COURT
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$11,156,356
1,574,388

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,660,300
83,870

362

$12,730,744

$1,744,170

The City Record

March 18, 1998

15

Municipal Court - Clerk's Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses$
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL MUNICIPAL COURT

$7,182,249
5,260,921
1,921,328
$21,657,163

$21,657,163

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,260,706
275,359

$1,536,065

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$1,536,065

$1,536,065

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$9,126,267
817,217

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$134,830,901
11,143,670

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$63,220,859
2,600,025

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$13,815,383
1,118,577

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,637,987
766,944

Division of Dog Pound
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$550,982
141,434

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

$9,943,484

$145,974,571

$65,820,884

$14,933,960

$3,404,931

$692,416

$240,770,246

$240,770,246

COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD
Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$799,940
104,921

$904,861

TOTAL COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD

$904,861

$904,861

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$315,799
18,236

Division of Architecture
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$521,073
36,214

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$14,702,668
11,556,373

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$4,158,673
468,354

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

$334,035

$557,287

$26,259,041

$4,627,027

$31,777,390

$31,777,390

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

363

$764,323
$578,415
185,908

The City Record

16

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

March 18, 1998
$673,683
$595,450
78,233

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$7,183,414
2,822,864

$10,006,278

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$838,790
42,264

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$8,307,581
2,543,513

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$8,370,513
3,976,845

$881,054

$10,851,094

$12,347,358

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES $35,523,790

$35,523,790

BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$8,242
0

$8,242

TOTAL BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION

$8,242

$8,242

URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Division of Administrative Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$85,933

Division of Building and Housing
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$5,325,905
533,422

Director's Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$104,740

Division of Neighborhood Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$129,767
192,000

Division of Neighborhood Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$69,529

TOTAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

$85,933

$5,859,327

$104,740

$321,767

$69,529

$6,441,296

$6,441,296

REGULATORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$81,920
9,016

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$74,391
13,233

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$225,210
20,984

Board of Examiners of Plumbers and Electricians
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Fair Campaign Finance Commission
II.
Other Expenses

$90,936

$87,624

$246,194

$89,709
$85,541
4,168
$9,519
9,519

Total Regulatory Boards

$523,982

364

$523,982

The City Record

March 18, 1998

17

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,164,353
92,279

Total Department of Economic Development

$1,256,632

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$542,464
82,026

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,192,343
63,091

Division of Harbors
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

59,146
0

TOTAL URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

$1,256,632

$1,256,632
$624,490

$1,255,434

$59,146

$10,160,980

$10,160,980

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$148,687
108,833

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$4,256,886
992,883

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,405,526
665,488

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,039,348
253,399

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

$257,520

$5,249,769

$3,071,014

$2,292,747

$10,871,050

$10,871,050

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
DEPARTMENT OF AGING
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$203,494
72,639

$276,133

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

$276,133

$276,133

SUPPORT FUNCTIONS
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$254,710
48,559

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$750,404
386,413

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$846,880
154,916

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$345,987
73,193

365

$303,269

$1,136,817

$1,001,796

$419,180

The City Record

18

March 18, 1998

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$542,817
116,745

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$182,466
333,122

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$877,222
66,497

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

$659,562

$515,588

$943,719

$4,979,931

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Department Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL FINANCE AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION

$4,979,931
$472,504

$412,319
60,185
$7,392,862
$5,046,399
2,346,463
$12,845,297

$12,845,297

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$951,998
355,977

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$610,229
473,714

TOTAL PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

$1,307,975

$1,083,943

$2,391,918

$2,391,918

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$906,000
$906,000

OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
II.
Other Expenses

$13,146,796

$13,146,796

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

$14,052,796

$14,052,796

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

$29,290,011

$29,290,011

TRANSFERS TO OTHER FUNDS
II.
Other Expenses

$24,724,478

$24,724,478

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$411,634,455

$411,634,455

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$16,938,442
11,750,000

$28,688,442

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$13,048,389
9,680,000

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

$22,728,389

$2,000,000
$2,000,000
$53,416,831

$53,416,831

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

366

$3,717,850
$313,142
3,404,708

The City Record

March 18, 1998

19

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,365,704
1,253,638

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$4,381,216
10,823,654

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$541,942
531,895

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$49,228
738,345

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

$2,619,342

$15,204,870

$1,073,837

$787,573

$23,403,472

$23,403,472

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,040,474
$770,586
269,888

Radio
I.
II.

$1,709,491
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$87,795
1,621,696

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,601,446
121,454

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$62,436,299
153,764,701

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$7,272,063
12,531,459

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$23,026,017
89,965,883

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

$1,722,900

$216,201,000

$19,803,522

$112,991,900

$353,469,287

$353,469,287

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
19,013,553
II.
Other Expenses
$49,756,356
Airport Development Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$68,769,909

$60,000
60,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

$68,829,909

$68,829,909

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,463,864
594,215

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$918,373
1,647,484

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$826,738
5,976,840

367

$2,058,079

$2,565,857

$6,803,578

The City Record

20

March 18, 1998

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Convention Center
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$1,953,059
II.
Other Expenses
4,630,339

$6,583,398

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,185,876
$330,558
855,318

Division of Property Management - East Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$43,901
II.
Other Expenses
173,598
TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, & PROPERTIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$217,499

$19,414,287

$19,414,287

$441,713,483

$441,713,483

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$3,835,997
2,626,377

$6,462,374

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

$6,462,374

$6,462,374

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
III.
Debt Service
Stadium Bond Fund
III.
Debt Service

$42,036,699
$110,646
382,309
41,543,744
$900,000
$900,000

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

$42,936,699

$42,936,699

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate File No. 194-98-A, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually
appropriated in said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 1997 is
hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 1998 or prior years.
The Mayor’s Estimate File No. 194-98-A, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 1998
and shall be subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and
Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to
another shall be made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

Schedule of Items asked for in the Mayor’s Estimate refused or changed by
Council and the reason for such changes. (Published pursuant to Section 30 of
the Charter.)
The following changes are made to provide for reductions in various departments and increases in other departments of City Government resulting from additional revenue sources in the amount of $838,315 to correct the total
of the 1998 Appropriation Ordinance No. 194-98.
1. Increase in request for
Municipal Court-Housing Division
By the Sum of
By adding to:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Police
By the Sum of
By adding to:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

368

$50,000
$50,000

$375,000
$375,000

The City Record

March 18, 1998

Division of Traffic Engineering
By the Sum of
By adding to:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Waste Collection
By the Sum of
By adding to:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of City Planning
By the Sum of
By adding to:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Dog Pound
By the Sum of
By adding to:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Recreation
By the Sum of
By adding to:
II.
Other Expenses

21
$48,750
$48,750

$271,215
$271,215

$36,750
$36,750

$26,600
$26,600

$30,000
$30,000

2. Reduction in request for
Division of Safety Administration
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Office of Budget and Management
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Building and Housing
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Neighborhood Development
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Economic Development
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
II.
Other Expenses

$142,500
$142,500

$37,500
$37,500

$135,000
$135,000

$82,500
$82,500

$50,000
$50,000

Department of Law
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
II.
Other Expenses

$150,000
$150,000

Division of Accounts
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Subsidies to Other Funds
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
II.
Other Expenses

$40,815
$40,815

$200,000
$200,000

Division of Streets
By the Sum of
By substracting from:
II.
Other Expenses

$200,000
$200,000

Ordinance No. 194-98 is herein published following the Public Hearings and before the third reading and final
passage and reflects the necessary amendments required by this schedule.

369

The City Record

22
RECORDING OF VOTE
Pursuant to Rule 22 of the Rules
of Order Governing the Council of
the City of Cleveland, Councilman
Michael Dolan, having been absent
at the Council meeting on March 9,
1998, records his vote as “Nay” on
the passage of Ordinance No. 200-98.
Ordinance No. 200-98 passed on third
reading, Yeas 17. Nays 1.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 7:55 p.m.
to meet on Monday, March 23, 1998
at 7:00 p.m.

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 195-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply for, and the
Director of Community Development
to accept, a XXIV year grant pursuant to Title I of the Housing and
Community
Development
Act
of
1974; and authorizing the Director of
Community Development to apply
for and accept grants from the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development for the 1998
Federal HOME Grant Program, and
1998 Emergency Shelter Program,
and the Housing Opportunities for
Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, pursuant to Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (hereinafter
referred to as the “Act”), the City of
Cleveland may apply for and be
granted approximately Thirty Million Two Hundred Forty Eight
Thousand Dollars ($30,248,000) from
the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development
(hereinafter referred to as “HUD”);
and
Whereas, under the Act, the City
of Cleveland is defined as the entitlement City; and
Whereas, in accordance with Section 104(a) of the Act, the City of
Cleveland has held public hearings
to inform the public concerning the
nature of the Act to obtain the public’s views on Community Development and housing needs; and
Whereas, the application requires
that the Mayor and the Director of
Law sign certain assurances that
the City will comply with the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and 1968 and
Executive Order 11063 on Equal
Opportunity Housing, as well as
assurances set forth in the Housing
Act of 1974; and
Whereas, under the Act, the Chief
Executive
Officer
assumes
the
stature of the responsible Federal
official under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 for projects to be carried out pursuant to
the application and grant; and
Whereas, the Community Development Plan and Program as set forth
in the application gives maximum

feasible priority to activities which
benefit low and moderate income
families to aid in the prevention or
elimination of slum and blight; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
may also apply for and accept
approximately Nine Million Two
Hundred Thirty-Nine Thousand Dollars ($9,239,000) from the United
States Department of HUD to implement the Federal Home Grant Program, the Emergency Shelter Grant
Program and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is hereby authorized to submit an application to HUD on behalf of the City
of Cleveland for a XXIV year grant
the Act for the fullest extent of
funding allowed and determined
under said Act. That the Mayor is
hereby authorized to act as the
authorized representative of the
City of Cleveland for purposes of
said Act, and to provide such further information as may be necessary to obtain a grant under the
Act.
Section 2. That the application,
Community Development Plan and
Program as set forth in File No. 19598-A, copies of which are also in
said file are hereby approved. This
Council hereby approves the Projected Use of Funds detailed in said
file, including the sum of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) to be used
for HIV/AIDS prevention, education,
and assistance programs.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept the XXIV year
grant, pursuant to The Act.
Section 4. That the Mayor, the
Directors of Community Development and Law and such other officers of the City of Cleveland as may
be necessary, are hereby authorized
to execute such assurances and certifications as may be required under
the Community Development Block
Grant Rules and Regulations.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of Seven Million Four Hundred Thirteen Thousand Dollars ($7,413,000) from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to conduct the Federal Home Grant Program; a grant in the amount of One
Million Two Hundred Eight Thousand Dollars ($1,208,000) to conduct
the Emergency Shelter Grant Program; and a grant in the amount of
Six Hundred Eighteen Thousand
Dollars ($618,000) to conduct the
Housing Opportunities for Persons
with AIDS Program, for the purposes set forth in the application and
according thereto; that the Director
of Community Development is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grants;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grants.
Section 6. That the applications
for the grants authorized in Section
5 of this ordinance, placed in the file
specified in Section 2 above, are
made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, are hereby approved in all respects.

370

March 18, 1998
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 286-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by department request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of lumber, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Ord. No. 287-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, to enter into contract with the Legal Aid Society of
Cleveland for legal services necessary to defend indigents charged
with violation of ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, provided such violation may result in incarceration,
for the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Ord. No. 288-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of office supplies, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of one
year, with one option to renew for
one additional year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
office supplies in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, with one (1) option
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance, to renew for one additional
year, and cancellable upon thirty
days written notice by said director,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of City government. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of said items as the Board of Control shall determine. Alternate bids
for a period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 23241)

March 18, 1998
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 289-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to pay the cost of extraction of 1996 Ohio income tax master
file data.
Ord. No. 291-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of standard
wire, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Ord. No. 292-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of typewriter
maintenance and repair, for the various divisions of City government,
for a period not to exceed two years.
Ord. No. 293-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of pole painting, for the various divisions of City
government, for a period not to
exceed two years.

BOARD OF CONTROL
March 11, 1998
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 11, 1998,
at 11:00 a.m., with Mayor White presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Directors
Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Absent: None.
Others: William A. Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Laura A. Williams, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 153-98.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of T - Group Communications for an
estimated quantity of Pre-sort Mail
Service (All items) for the Division
of Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on February 5th, 1998,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2225-96, passed December
16, 1996, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Nine Thousand Seven Hundred-Fifty
and 00/100 Dollars ($9,750.00), (2%
30 Days), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,

The City Record
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 87557
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Four
Hundred Eighty-Eight and 00/100
Dollars ($488.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 154-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No.
1058-97, adopted December 24, 1997,
pursuant to the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, approving the
bid of Kennedy Valve, Division of
McWane Inc., as lowest and best for
fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts,
items 5-12, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, is
hereby amended by deleting the
words “Six Hundred Thousand Ninety Eight Dollars”, where appearing,
and substituting the words “Six
Hundred Ninety Eight Thousand
Dollars.”
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 1058-97 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 155-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Fabrizi Trucking &
Paving Co., Inc. for the public
improvement of Spring Road relief
sewer - Phase II for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on
January 8, 1998, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1630-96,
passed September 9, 1996, upon a
unit basis - for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Five Hundred Nine Thousand Nine Hundred
Eleven and 00/100 ($509,911.00) Dollars, is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid;
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby authorized to enter into
contract for said improvement with
said bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors to Fabrizi Trucking &
Paving Co., Inc. for the above-mentioned public improvement is hereby
approved:

371

23
Subcontractor

Work

Cook Paving &
Construction
Asphalt work
MBE
Steward Supply
Supply pipe &
miscellaneous materials
MBE
Friedel Trucking
Trucking
FBE
Sircle Construction
Concrete work &
landscaping
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 156-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cook Paving and Construction Co., Inc. for an estimated
quantity of duct line installation
and/or repair, all items, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on the 29th day of
January
1998,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 2018-97,
passed December 15, 1997 on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Million Eight
Hundred Twenty Eight Thousand
Eight Hundred Fifty and no/100
Dollars
($1,828,850.00),
(Net
30
Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 10728
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ninety
Two Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($92,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Cook Paving and Construction Co.,
Inc. for duct line installation and/or
repair for the above-mentioned requirement contract is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

MBE/FBE

Bradley Construction
14% (MBE)
Granger Trucking
5% (MBE)
United Ready Mix
4% (MBE)

The City Record

24
Friedel Trucking
2% (FBE)
Leader Electric
5% (FBE)
Interstate Safety
1% (FBE)
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 157-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Moore U.S.A.,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
paper products (items C-1 through C4) for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on the 5th day of February,
1998, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 764-96, passed May 20,
1996 on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Forty
Nine Thousand Seven Hundred Thirty Three Dollars and Fifty Cents
($49,733.50) (2% 30 Days), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby requested
to enter into requirement contract
for such commodities, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 01760
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Forty
Nine Thousand Seven Hundred Thirty Three Dollars and Fifty Cents
($49,733.50).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 158-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Westvaco
Envelope Division, Westvaco Corporation for an estimated quantity of
paper products (items C-12 and C-14)
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on the 5th day of February,
1998, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 764-96, passed May 20,
1996 on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to One Thousand Nine Hundred Thirty Seven
Dollars ($1,937.00) (1% 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immedi-

ate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 01759
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Thousand
Nine
Hundred
Thirty
Seven Dollars ($1,937.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 159-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Mail-Well I
dba American Mail-Well Envelope
for an estimated quantity of paper
products (items C-6 through C-11 and
C-13) for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on the 5th day of
February, 1998, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 764-96,
passed May 20, 1996 on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Ninety Thousand Two
Hundred Seven Dollars and Fifty
Cents ($90,207.50) (Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 01764
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Forty
Five Thousand One Hundred Three
Dollars
and
Eighty
Cents
($45,103.80).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 160-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The McLean Company for an estimated quantity of One (1) 4-Wheel
Street Sweeper and additional equipment (Item 2) for various Divisions
of City Government, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
January 30, 1998, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1113-97,
passed July 16, 1997, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity

372

March 18, 1998
would amount to approximately One
Hundred Fifty Nine Thousand Five
Hundred
and
no/100
Dollars
($159,500.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 19462
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Fifty Nine Thousand Five
Hundred
and
no/100
Dollars
($159,500.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by The
McLean Company, for one (1) 4wheel street sweeper and additional
equipment, (item #2), is hereby
approved:
Logical Services
MBE — $950.00
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 161-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on February 6, 1998 for
two (2) cab and chassis with chip
dump body/bucket and additional
equipment (Item #2) for various
Divisions
of
City
Government,
Department of Public Service, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1113-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on July 16,
1997, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 162-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Wise International Trucks of
Ohio for an estimated quantity of
one (1) cab and chassis with street
flusher body and additional equipment (all items) for various Divisions of City Government, Department of Public Service, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on February 6, 1998,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1113-97, passed July 16,
1997, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
approximately Eighty Eight Thousand Six Hundred Seventeen and
no/100 Dollars ($88,617.00), (Net), is

March 18, 1998
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 19499
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eighty
Eight Thousand Six Hundred Seventeen
and
no/100
Dollars
($88,617.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Wise
International Trucks of Ohio, for the
purchase of one (1) cab and chassis
with street flusher body and additional equipment, (all items), is
hereby approved:
Independent Brokers
MBE — $700.00/unit
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 163-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Automotive Equipment Company,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of one
(1) cab and chassis with tow truck
body
(light/medium)
with
additional equipment (all items) for
various Divisions of City Government, Department of Public Service,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract received on February 6,
1998, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1113-97, passed July
16, 1997, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
approximately Fifty Nine Thousand
Five Hundred and no/100 Dollars
($59,500.00), (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 19500
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifty
Nine Thousand Five Hundred and
no/100 Dollars ($59,500.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guz-

The City Record
man,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 164-98.
By Director Denihan.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Standard Law Enforcement Supply Co. for an estimated quantity of
shotguns
and
ammunition,
(all
items) for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on February 13, 1998,
pursuant to Section 135.065 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Twenty-Six Thousand, Seven Hundred Eighty and no/100 Dollars
($26,780.00),
(Net),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No: 11367
60 Item #1 — Remington 870 Marine
Magnum Shotguns, as specified,
2,000 Item #2 — Rounds of No. 23BR
Bean Bag 12 Gauge Ammunition, as
specified
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty-Six Thousand, Seven Hundred
Eighty
and
no/100
Dollars
($26,780.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirement for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 165-98.
By Director Spellman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all bids
received on February 18, 1998 for
Maintenance and repair of elevators
and escalators (All Items) for the
Division of Convention Center & Stadium, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 2034-97,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 15, 1997 be
and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 166-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and

373

25
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-08-076 (northern half) located at 1399 East 45th Street in Ward
13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Ante and Visnja Lukac,
abutting/adjacent landowners, have
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Ante and
Visnja Lukac for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10408-076 (northern half) located at
1399 East 45th Street, in accordance
with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 167-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-08-076 (southern half) located at 1399 East 45th Street in Ward
13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Larry
Childs,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

26
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Larry Childs
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 104-08-076 (southern half) located at 1399 East 45th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 168-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 006-07-117 located at 7600 Grace
Avenue, S.W. in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Vilma
Flores,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Vilma Flores
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 006-07-117 located

The City Record
at 7600 Grace Avenue, S.W., in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers,
Carmody,
Konicek,
Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 169-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-03-034 located at 2194 West
20th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Rodney S. Samples, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Rodney S.
Samples for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00403-034 located at 2194 West 20th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 170-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reuti-

374

March 18, 1998
lization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 003-10-006 located at 5204 Herman Avenue in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Martin J. McBride, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Martin J.
McBride for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00310-006
located
at
5204
Herman
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$700.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 171-98.
By Director Spellman.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Lake Erie Electric,
Inc. for the public improvement of
the new Cleveland Browns NFL Stadium building power and lighting
(Bid Package 8B), including alternate 2, for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, received on March 4,
1998, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 304-96, passed March
8, 1996, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Eight Million Three Hundred Seventy-Four Thousand Eight
Hundred and no/100 ($8,374,800.00)
Dollars, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby authorized to enter into contract
for said improvement with said bidder.

The City Record

March 18, 1998
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Lake Erie Electric,
Inc. for the public improvement of
the new Cleveland Browns Stadium
building power and lighting, hereby
is approved:
Artisan Electrical Contractors, Inc.
(MBE) $2,520,000
Rivera Construction
(FBE) $12,210
Work Best Electrical, Inc.
(FBE) $840,000
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman,
Staib,
Denihan,
Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates
for
original
entrance
positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1998
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 98-35: 2184 Cornell
Road
Paul Minnillo, owner, appeals to
erect a 22' x 68' 2-story frame single
family dwelling house on a 28' x 172'
irregular shaped lot located in a
Multi-Family District at 2184 Cornell
Road; said use being contrary to the
required interior side yards of Section 357.09(b)(2)A&B where the proposed aggregate interior side yard
is 6'6" instead of 10'0" and with
less than 10' to the dwelling house
at 2180 to the west and contrary to
the required parking spaces limitations of Section 349.04(a)of the Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 98-40: 1313-1315 West
105th Street
Thomas Donovan, owner, appeals
to change use to three dwelling
units, the 30' x 44' two-story twofamily dwelling house, located in a
Two-Family District on a 40' x 135'
lot, at 1313-1315 West 105th Street;
said use being contrary to the the
two-family residence limitations of
Sections 337.03(a), and the area
requirements of Section 355.04(a), the
north and south interior side yard
being 5' instead of the 8' requirements of Section 357.09(b) (2)C, and
contrary to the off-street parking
requirements of Section 349.04(a),
and said use being contrary to the
expansion
limitations
of
Section
359.01(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-41: 6301 Harvard
Avenue
Theodore Swarski and Glen Snow,
owners, and Zaremba Group LLC c/o
John Wojtila, prospective purchaser,
and (CVS Pharmacy) c/o Edward
Cook, tenant, appeal to erect a 75' x
135' 10,125 sq. ft. one-story masonry
drugstore building and a 60 car parking lot all on a 147' x 372' irregular
shaped corner lot located in a General Retail Business District and
Local Retail District at the northwesterly corner of East 64h Street
and Harvard Avenue at 6301 Harvard
Avenue; said proposal not being in
compliance with the driveway regulations of Section 343.18C and the
landscaping/screening required on
the west property line by Section
352.11 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-45: Appeal of Terry
Lee Harbach
Terry Lee Harbach, appeals under
Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland from the refusal
to issue a license to operate a taxicab by Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses,
pursuant
to
Section
443.13(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998
At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
9, 1998, the following appeals were
heard by the Board, and, on Monday,
March 16, 1998 were decided by the
Board.
The following appeals were Granted:
Calendar No. 98-11: 2100 West 95th
Street
Ed Walker, owner, appealed to
change
use
from
a
two-family
dwelling to a three-family dwelling
use. (Granted conditionally).
Calendar No. 98-21: 9600 Carnegie
Avenue
The Cleveland Clinic Foundation,
owner, c/o Richard T. Mitchell,
appealed, to erect a 20,820 sq. ft. one
story biological research building.
The following appeals were Refused:
Calendar No. 98-26: 12821 McGowan
Avenue
D. J. D. Investment Company,
owner, c/o Eric Lewis, appealed, to

375

27
change the use of a one-family
dwelling to a two-family dwelling
use.
Calendar No. 97-257: 2215 East 89th
Street
William D. Hall, owner, and In
Transition II Inc. c/o Daphne Booker, tenant, appealed, to increase
occupancy from five to ten residents. (With mental illness).
Calendar No. 97-266: 3561 East 149th
Street
Sherma A. Noel, owner, appealed
to change use to a group home for
five individuals, eighteen years or
older in the first floor dwelling unit
of a two-story masonry nonconforming four-dwelling unit apartment
building.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 97-260: 1266 Parkwood
Drive to March 30, 1998.
Calendar No. 97-130: 1973 West 96th
Street that was postponed indefinitely from July 14, 1997 is being
heard before the Board on Monday, March 30, 1998.
Calendar No. 98-27: 3400 Vega Avenue to March 30, 1998.
Calendar No. 98-29: 3703 East 61st
Street to March 30, 1998.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard Norris, last known address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment
2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.

The City Record

28
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1998
Interior Renovation at the Third
District Police Station Building
(17-90D), for the Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1278-92, 2053-91 and
2189-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, July 22,
1992, February 24, 1992 and February 9, 1998, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN (15) DAYS AFTER
THE BID OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, MARCH 16,
1998, 10:00 A.M. AT THE THIRD
DISTRICT
POLICE
STATION
BUILDING, 2001 PAYNE AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR OLD COURTROOM.
March 4, 1998, March 11, 1998, March
18, 1998 and March 25, 1998
FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1998
Gasoline, f o r the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 153-98, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
Elevator and Escalator Maintenance,
for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2034-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December 15,
1997.
Fence Repair, for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1777-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
March 11, 1998 and March 18, 1998
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1998
Computer Related Hardware Equipment, for the various divisions of

City Government, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1471-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 13, 1997.
Testing and Disposal of PCB Oils
and Contaminated Materials, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2013-97, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December 15, 1997.

March 18, 1998
No. 149-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland.
Gradall Equipment Parts, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 149-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland.
Antifreeze, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 152-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland.

March 11, 1998 and March 18, 1998
March 18, 1998 and March 25, 1998
FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1998
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1998
Repair of One (1) Boom Truck, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 2148-97, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, February 2, 1998.
Mower Parts and Labor, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 150-98,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
March 11, 1998 and March 18, 1998
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1998
Consolidated Car Rental Facility —
Site Landscaping Package, for
the Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
561-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 2,
1997.
A
NON-REFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MARCH
26, 1998, 10:00 A.M. IN THE
SHERATON
HOTEL,
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

Installing an HVAC Unit and Associated
Appurtenances,
for
the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department
of Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 545-96, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 6, 1998.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, MARCH 31,
1998, 10:30 A.M. IN THE BAGGAGE
CLAIM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
TERMINAL
BUILDING,
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
5300
RIVERSIDE
DRIVE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193. WHILE
THIS MEETING IS NOT MANDATORY,
BIDDERS
ARE
CAUTIONED
THAT
QUESTIONS,
CLARIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION MAY RESULT FROM
THIS MEETING WHICH COULD
SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT YOUR
BID. IN ADDITION, BY CITY
POLICY, THIS WILL BE THE
ONLY OPPORTUNITY FOR BIDDERS TO TALK DIRECTLY TO
DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL PERSONNEL PRIOR TO
AWARD OF CONTRACT.
Service Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, 1976.

THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1998

Stop Cock Boxes, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, 1976.

Towel and Linen Service, for the
various divisions of the City Government, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1743-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, October 13,
1997.

Various Equipment and Accessories
to Outfit Vehicles, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 111397, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 1997.

March 18, 1998 and March 25, 1998

March 18, 1998 and March 25, 1998

March 18, 1998 and March 25, 1998

FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1998

TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1998

Frame Repair, for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 14798, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland.

Continental Airlines, Bid Package 7
— Concourse D Shell, Core and
Finishes, for the Department of
Port Control.
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS ARE
AVAILABLE
FROM
MORSE
DIESEL INTERNATIONAL INC.,
5900
SOUTH
CARGO
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135 FOR
THE
REFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
TWO
HUNDRED
AND
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($250.00).
PLEASE
CALL (216) 265-4880.
A PRE-BID MEETING IS SCHEDULED FOR TUESDAY, MARCH
31, 1998, 10:00 A.M. IN THE CTC
BUILDING, 5900 SOUTH CARGO
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.

Case Equipment Parts and Labor,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 149-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
Caterpillar Equipment Parts, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance

376

March 18, 1998
BIDS ARE DUE APRIL 14, 1998 BY
3:00
P.M.
AND
WILL
BE
RECEIVED AT THE CONTINENTAL
AIRLINES,
INC.,
CTC
BUILDING,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
5900
SOUTH
CARGO
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO,
ATTENTION: BILL FRASER.

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.

Res. No. 630-97.
By Councilman Britt (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of East 96th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of East 96th Street, as
hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property, located in
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
and known as being all that portion
of:
EAST 96TH STREET (66.00 feet
wide), and its associated turn-outs
extending
Northerly
from
the
Northerly line of Cedar Avenue
(66.00 feet wide) to the Southerly
line of Carnegie Avenue (80.00 feet
wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 2, 1998.
Effective March 11, 1998.
Res. No. 439-98.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3074 W. 14th
St., and repealing Res. No. 1943-97,
objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 3074 W. 14th St., by Res. No. 194397, adopted October 13, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
3074 W. 14th St., be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 194397, containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate issuance thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.

Res. No. 440-98.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a Liquor Permit to 3824 E. 65th St.,
1st Fl., and repealing Res. No. 151597, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a Liquor Permit to
3824 E. 65th St., 1st Fl., by Res. No.
1515-97, adopted August 13, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a Liquor Permit to 3824
E. 65th St., 1st Fl., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1515-97, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.

Res. No. 442-98.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit to 3916 E. 123rd St.,
and
repealing
Res.
No.
1101-97,
objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2,
C2X, and D6 Liquor Permit to 3916
E. 123rd St., by Res. No. 1101-97,
adopted June 9, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit to 3916 E.
123rd St., be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 1101-97,
containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer of ownership
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.

Res. No. 441-98.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3249 East
143rd Street, and repealing Res. No.
93-98, objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 3249 E. 143rd Street, by Res. No.
93-98, adopted January 12, 1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
3249 E. 143rd St., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
93-98, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate issuance thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

Res. No. 443-98.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2 and D3A Liquor Permit to
3135 W. 63rd St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., and
repealing Res. No. 1547-97, objecting
to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2 and D3A
Liquor Permit to 3135 W. 63rd St.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., by Res. No. 1547-97,
adopted August 13, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2 and D3A Liquor
Permit to 3135 W. 63rd St., 1st Fl. &
Bsmt., be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 1547-97, containing said objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

March 18, 1998 and March 25, 1998

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

29

377

30
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 1290-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Rybka and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Port Control to enter into contract
with Parsons Infrastructure & Technology Group, Inc. for program and
construction management for the
five-year capital improvement program, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control.
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control has solicited proposals to
hire a professional consultant to provide program and construction management for the five-year capital
program
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport; and
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control has determined, following
established procedures for selecting
consultants, to award the contract to
Parsons Infrastructure & Technology Group, Inc.; and
Whereas, this Council joins with
the Department of Port Control in
the selection of Parsons Infrastructure & Technology Group, Inc. to
perform the services; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
with Parsons Infrastructure & Technology Group, Inc. for professional
services necessary to provide program and construction management
for the five-year capital improvement program at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, in the total
sum not to exceed $6,500,000.00, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose

The City Record
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from the proceeds of the
sale of the general airport revenue
bonds of the City of Cleveland
authorized by Ordinance No. 923-97,
passed June 9, 1997, and from any
fund or subfunds to which any federal grants for said contract are
credited, Request No. 22520.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 2, 1998.
Effective March 11, 1998.
Ord. No. 1781-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Stuber Court N.E. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 14th day of
August, 1996 the Council of the City
of Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
1114-96 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Stuber Ct. N.E.,
hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1114-96 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Stuber Ct.
N.E., affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 28th day of
August, 1997, the Board of Revision
of Assessments approved the vacation of Stuber Ct. N.E., hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Stuber Ct. N.E., hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

March 18, 1998
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Stuber Ct. N.E., (15 and 16 feet
wide), beginning on its Northerly
line, at its intersection with the
Westerly line of E. 30th Street (66
feet wide); thence Southwest along
its Northerly line (114 feet) to a
point; thence Southeast along its
Westerly line (38.76 feet) to a point;
thence Northeast (16.02 feet) to a
point on its Easterly line; thence
Northwest along its Easterly line
(24.62 feet) to a point; thence Northeast along its Southerly line (98
feet) to the Westerly line of E. 30th
St. as aforesaid; thence Northwest
(15 feet) to the place of beginning
is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland an easement for existing Division of Light and Power equipment.
The description of easement is as
follows:
That portion of Stuber Ct. N.E.,
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line
of Stuber Ct. N.E., at its intersection with the Westerly line of E.
30th St. (66 feet wide); thence
Southwest along its Northerly line
(114 feet) to a point; thence Southeast along its Westerly line (38.76
feet) to a point; thence Northeast
(16.02 feet) to a point on its Easterly line (24.62 feet) to a point;
thence Northeast along its Southerly line (98 feet), to the Westerly
line of E. 30 St. as aforesaid; thence
Northwest (15 feet) to the place of
beginning.
That no structures shall be hereafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Division of
Light and Power, of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Stuber Ct. N.E., herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 2, 1998.
Effective March 11, 1998.

Ord. No. 2103-97.
By Councilmen Britt and Johnson (by request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal Ordinance No. 2023-97, passed January 26, 1998, and authorizing the Director
of Public Service to issue a permit to Health Hill Hospital for Children to encroach into the public right-of-way
on Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard and Shaker Boulevard to construct, use and maintain hospital identification banners to be hung on Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company utility poles.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 2023-97, passed January 26, 1998, be and is hereby repealed.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Health
Hill Hospital for Children, 2801 Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44104-3865, its successors and
assigns, for the construction, maintenance and use of approximately eleven (11) hospital identification banners,
to be hung on Cleveland Electrical Illuminating Company utility poles (by separate permission), which banners
will encroach into the public right-of-way of Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard and Shaker Boulevard, and are
more fully described as follows:

378

March 18, 1998

The City Record

31

POLE LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

OWNER / POLE TYPE:

Five (5) Poles on the
north side of the eastbound
lanes of Shaker Blvd.
beginning at the corner of
Shaker & MLK & extending
east on Shaker Blvd.

No tag or #
No tag or #
No tag or #
#548839
#548840

C.E.I.
C.E.I.
C.E.I.
C.E.I.
C.E.I.

One (1) pole on the
extreme southeast corner
of MLK & Shaker Blvd.

No tag or #

City of Cleveland/
Traffic Signal

Two (2) poles on the
easterly side of MLK
southerly from Shaker Blvd.
proceeding southerly
toward Buckeye Rd.

#539752
#539560

C.E.I. / Streetlight
C.E.I. / Streetlight

One (1) pole on the
extreme southwest corner
of MLK & Shaker Blvd.

#701856

C.E.I. / Streetlight

Two (2) poles on the
westerly side of MLK
southerly from Shaker Blvd.
proceeding southerly
toward Buckeye Rd.

#539753
#45259

C.E.I. / Streetlight
C.E.I. / Streetlight

/
/
/
/
/

Streetlight
Streetlight
Streetlight
Streetlight
Streetlight

Section 3. That said banners will be located within the public right-of-way of Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard
and Shaker Boulevard and shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 2, 1998.
Effective March 11, 1998.

Ord. No. 147-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to repair vehicle frames and for alignments, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of labor and materials necessary to
repair vehicle frames and for alignments, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
one year period, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a peri-

od less than one year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire one year
period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22919)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 148-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to enter into contract
without competitive bidding with E.
J. Ward, Inc. for the purchase of

379

spare replacement parts for the fuel
control terminals and for telephone
consultation needed to maintain the
terminals, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
E.J. Ward, Inc. Therefore, the Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to make a
written contract with said E.J.
Ward, Inc. upon the basis of its proposal for the purchase of spare
replacement parts for the fuel control terminals and for telephone consultation needed to maintain the terminals, for a one year period, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 70 SF 300,
Request No. 22920.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

32
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 149-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain Case, Caterpillar, Gradall
and Crane Carrier equipment, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of labor and materials necessary to
repair and maintain Case, Caterpillar,
Gradall
and
Crane
Carrier
equipment
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding one year period, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire one year
period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 22914)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 150-98.
By
Councilmen
Sweeney
and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain mowers and cutting equipment, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year for the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to repair and maintain
mowers and cutting equipment in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding one
year period, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract
for each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than one year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire one
year period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22916)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
¨Ord. No. 151-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of labor
and materials necessary to repair
and maintain Ford trucks, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of labor and materials necessary to
repair and maintain Ford truck

380

March 18, 1998
parts in the approximate amount as
purchased during the preceding one
year period, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
one year period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22918)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 152-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of anti-freeze,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of anti-freeze in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding one year period, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire one
year period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certi-

March 18, 1998
fy thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22917)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 153-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of gasoline, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of gasoline in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding one year period, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire one
year period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 22915)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.

The City Record

33

Ord. No. 199-98.
By Councilmen Cintron, Sweeney
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1941-97,
passed October 13, 1997, relating to
the vacation of a portion of Iliad
Court S.W. and West 22nd.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1941-97, passed October 13,
1997, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Iliad Ct. S.W., (12 feet wide),
extending Southerly and Southwesterly from the Southerly line of
Eglindale Avenue S.W. Vacation by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
by Ordinance No. 1122-87, passed on
June 16, 1987 ANDa portion of West
22nd Place (12 feet wide) extending
Northerly from the Northerly line of
Titus Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) to
the Southerly line of Eglindale
Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1941-97, passed
October 13, 1997, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure, and provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
its approval by the Mayor; otherwise
it shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.

Whereas, this Council has determined that, to maximize the benefits of the Approved Projects (as
defined in Section 1), it may be necessary that certain costs of the
Approved Projects be incurred and
paid in advance of the collection of
PFC revenue for the purpose; and
Whereas, to provide funds timely
to pay such costs, this Council has
determined it to be in the best interest of the City to provide for a
revolving credit arrangement with a
bank or other financial institution,
under which the City may obtain
advances, from time to time, in
anticipation of the collection of PFC
revenue to repay those advances
(the “Revolving Credit Agreement”);
and
Whereas, this Council has further
determined that it is necessary for
the City to issue obligations (the
“Revenue Notes”) to evidence any
advances
under
the
Revolving
Credit Agreement, payable from and
secured by the Pledged Revenues
(as defined in Section 1) on the
terms and subject to the conditions
set forth herein; and
Whereas, the prompt and immediate completion of the Approved Projects is necessary to maximize the
benefits thereof, including the benefit of reducing the impact of Airport
noise, and requires providing for a
Revolving Credit Agreement, issuing Revenue Notes to evidence any
advances
made
thereunder,
and
undertaking the other transactions
contemplated
herein
and,
consequently, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public property, health, and safety
and for the usual and daily operation of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

Ord. No. 200-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a Revolving Credit Agreement
and the issuance of Special Revenue
Notes to evidence any advances
thereunder in an amount not to
exceed $10,000,000 for the purpose of
paying costs of acquiring residential
properties and relocating residents
and insulating residences to mitigate the impact of airport noise and
paying
costs
of
other
projects
approved by the Federal Aviation
Administration for funding from
passenger facility charges, authorizing the pledge of the Pledged
Revenues to secure those notes, and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, the Aviation Safety and
Capacity Expansion Act of 1990
authorized the U.S. Secretary of
Transportation to approve locally
imposed passenger facility charges
(“PFCs”) at airports to finance eligible capital projects; and
Whereas, pursuant to the Act (as
defined in Section 1), the City of
Cleveland, Ohio (the “City”) has
received approval from the U.S.
Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration (the
“FAA”), to impose and use PFCs to
fund certain projects at or in the
vicinity of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport
(the
“Airport”),
including acquiring residential properties and relocating residents and
insulating residences to mitigate the
impact of Airport noise, and intends
to seek further such approvals; and

Section 1. Definitions.
As used in this ordinance, the following capitalized words and terms
shall have the following meanings.
Words importing singular numbers
shall include the plural number in
each case, and vice versa.
“Act” means, collectively, Section
9110 of the Aviation Safety and
Capacity Expansion Act of 1990,
which amended Section 1113 of the
Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49
U.S.C. App. § 1513(e)), and the related U.S. Department of Transportation FAA regulations (14 C.F.R.
Part 158 — the “PFC Regulations”),
as such provisions may be amended
or supplemented from time to time.
“Approved Projects” means Airport
noise mitigation projects for which
the imposition and use of PFCs has
been or may be approved by the
FAA pursuant to the Act, including
acquiring residential properties and
relocating residents and insulating
residences to mitigate the impact of
Airport noise, as any such projects
may
be
amended
or
otherwise
changed pursuant to applicable law.
“Bank” means the bank or other
financial institution selected by the
Director of Finance pursuant to this
ordinance to provide the Revolving
Credit Agreement.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
including, when appropriate, the
statutory predecessor of the Code,
and
all
applicable
regulations
(whether proposed, temporary or
final) thereunder.
“Net PFC Revenue” means that
PFC revenue which is remitted to
the City by collecting air carriers,

381

34
after they retain their compensation
— currently $0.08 of each PFC remitted — for collecting, handling and
remitting PFC revenue, for the purpose of paying allowable costs of
the Approved Projects, and includes
interest earned after such revenue
has been remitted to the City.
“Pledged Revenues” means Net
PFC Revenue less any PFC revenue
that has been pledged or assigned
to, or is otherwise committed to be
used for, the repayment of City
obligations other than the applicable Revenue Notes. If determined by
the Director of Finance, following
consultation with the City’s Financial Advisor (as defined in Section
4), that it is necessary to provide
additional security or sources of
payment for the Revenue Notes in
order to obtain the Revolving Credit Agreement on commercially reasonable terms, Pledged Revenues
may also include such Airport revenues as are available for the purpose, subject to the prior lien of the
Trust Indenture dated as of November 1, 1976, between the City and
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
Trustee,
as
supplemented
and
amended by the First Supplemental
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
1990, the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of August 1,
1994, and the Third Supplemental
Trust Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1997, all between the City and
the Trustee (as defined in the
Indenture; collectively, and as the
same may be further amended, supplemented or restated, the “Indenture”), and to any applicable restrictions under the Use Agreements (as
defined in the Indenture).
“Revenue Notes” means the note
or notes evidencing advances made
under the Revolving Credit Agreement, as provided in Section 3.
Section 2. Determinations by Council.
(a) Public Purpose. This Council
finds and determines that providing
for a Revolving Credit Agreement
and issuing Revenue Notes to evidence advances thereunder serve
proper, public, municipal purposes
by facilitating the prompt initiation
and completion of the Approved Projects, including the acquisition of
residential properties and the relocation of residents and insulating
residences to mitigate the impact of
Airport noise, and thereby improve
the health, safety and welfare of the
people of the City and enable the
City to undertake the expansion of
its Airport facilities to provide air
travel facilities needed by the people of the City and to increase and
promote commerce by providing necessary transportation for individuals
and
commercial
enterprises
purchasing and selling services and
products in northeastern Ohio.
(b) Authorization of the Revolving
Credit Agreement and Revenue Notes.
This Council finds and determines
that it is necessary, proper, and in the
best interest of the City to provide for
a Revolving Credit Agreement and,
for the public purpose so stated, (i)
the Director of Finance is authorized
to enter into the Revolving Credit
Agreement, and (ii) the City shall
issue Revenue Notes to evidence any
advances under the Revolving Credit
Agreement.
Section 3. Terms and Conditions.
(a) Amount. The amount available to the City under the Revolving Credit Agreement, and thus the

The City Record
aggregate amount of Revenue Notes
outstanding at any time, shall be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, shall be set forth in the
Revolving Credit Agreement, and
shall not exceed $10,000,000.
(b) Form. The Revenue Notes
shall be issued only in registered
form, registered in the name of the
Bank or its nominee, as registered
owner, shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America to the registered owner, and
shall not be transferable or assignable, in whole or in part, without
the prior written approval of the
Director of Finance of the City.
Each advance obtained by the City
under the Revolving Credit Agreement shall be evidenced by the
delivery of a Revenue Note in the
principal amount of the advance, or
the entry on the grid of a master
Revenue
Note
of
the
principal
amount of the advance. In the event
that each advance under the Revolving Credit Agreement is evidenced
by a separate Revenue Note, that
Revenue Note shall be dated the
date of the advance. In the event
that one master Revenue Note is
issued bearing a grid for the entry
of multiple advances, that master
Revenue Note shall be dated as of
the date of the first advance under
the Revolving Credit Agreement,
and the date and amount of any subsequent advance shall be entered on
the grid. The Revenue Notes shall
be signed on behalf of the City by
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance and approved as to legal
form and correctness and signed by
the Director of Law or his or her
designee, provided that any or all of
such signatures may be facsimiles,
and shall bear the corporate seal of
the City or a facsimile thereof.
(c) Terms. The principal amount
of each advance under the Revolving Credit Agreement shall bear
interest
from
the
date
of
the
advance or the most recent date to
which interest has been paid or duly
provided for, in accordance with the
Revenue
Note
evidencing
the
advance. The Director of Finance
shall negotiate with the Bank to
obtain such interest rate or rates as
are determined by the Director of
Finance to be in the best financial
interest of the City, given prevailing
market
considerations.
The
interest rate or rates may be variable, determined by reference to one
or more market indices or the
Bank's prime lending rate, or may
be fixed; provided such rate or rates
shall not in any event exceed twelve
percent (12%) per annum.
Revenue Notes shall mature on
the date or dates approved by the
Director of Finance, provided that
any such date shall be no later than
the expiration of the City’s authorization from the FAA to collect
PFCs in the normal course. Revenue
Notes shall be subject to redemption
at the option of the City in whole
or in part prior to stated maturity
on the dates and terms approved by
the Director of Finance and provided in the Revolving Credit Agreement, provided that the optional
redemption
premium
shall
not
exceed 2% of the principal amount
of the Revenue Note to be redeemed.
(d) Source of Repayment; Security. Revenue Notes shall be special,
limited obligations of the City the
principal of and interest and any
premium (collectively, “debt service”) on which shall be payable
solely from, and secured solely by,
the Pledged Revenues as provided

382

March 18, 1998
in the Revolving Credit Agreement.
Revenue Notes shall not constitute
a general obligation of the City and
shall not constitute a debt, or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City. No holder or owner of Revenue
Notes shall ever have the right to
compel the exercise of the City’s
taxing power or to compel the City
to pay debt service on the Revenue
Notes or to make any other payments
contemplated
under
the
Revolving Credit Agreement from
any moneys of the City other than
the
Pledged
Revenues.
Revenue
Notes shall contain on the face
thereof a statement to that effect.
Neither the Revenue Notes nor the
interest thereon shall constitute a
lien upon the Approved Projects or
any other property interest other
than the Pledged Revenues in the
manner provided for in this ordinance, the Revenue Notes, and the
Revolving Credit Agreement.
(e) PFC Program. The terms and
conditions of the Revolving Credit
Agreement and the Revenue Notes,
including those of all related documents, and the carrying out of the
obligations
imposed
thereunder,
shall not be such as to induce the
FAA to initiate procedures for the
termination of the City’s PFC program under the PFC Regulations
(at 14 C.F.R. Part 158, Subpart E)
and applicable law.
Section 4. Delivery of Documents.
(a) Revolving Credit Agreement.
The Director of Finance may enter
into a Revolving Credit Agreement
with the Bank which the Director of
Finance may select, after consultation with the City’s financial advisor, Carmona Motley Hoffmann, Inc.,
or other such advisor selected by the
Director of Finance (the “Financial
Advisor”), and subject to approval
of the legal form and correctness of
the Revolving Credit Agreement by
the Director of Law or his or her
designee. The Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Port Control and other appropriate City officials are hereby authorized to furnish, complete, sign and deliver,
such other documents, certificates
and
instruments,
after
approval
thereof as to legal form and correctness by the Director of Law or
his or her designee, necessary to
carry out the purposes of the
Revolving
Credit
Agreement
in
accordance with and subject to the
limitations set forth in this ordinance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to obtain advances under the
Revolving
Credit
Agreement
on
behalf of the City after due consideration of the cash flow needs and
status of the Approved Projects, and
the certification of the Director of
Finance authorizing such advances
shall constitute conclusive proof
that such due consideration was
made.
(b) PFC Revenue Notes. In accordance with and subject to the limitations set forth in this ordinance,
the Director of Finance, in order to
evidence any advance under the
Revolving
Credit
Agreement,
is
hereby authorized to designate the
terms of Revenue Notes, including,
without limitation: (i) the date or
dates of the Revenue Notes and each
advance thereunder; (ii) principal
amounts available, from time to
time, under the Revolving Credit
Agreement,
and
the
principal
amount of each advance; (iii) number of series and series designations; (iv) interest rates and pay-

March 18, 1998
ment dates; (v) purchase prices and
yields; (vi) optional redemption provisions; (vii) maturity dates; and
(viii) whether any Revenue Notes of
any series are to be secured by or
payable from a municipal bond
insurance policy, bank letter of credit, or other form of credit or liquidity facility. It is hereby determined
that the purchase price, the interest
rates, and the other terms and conditions of the Revenue Notes as so
specified and determined within the
limitations set forth in this ordinance will be in the best interest of
the City and consistent with all
legal requirements.
The Director of Finance is hereby
appointed to act as the note registrar to maintain the official records
with respect to, and as the paying
agent for, the Revenue Notes; provided, however, that the Director of
Finance is authorized to appoint a
bank (including the Bank) or other
institution, or other person or entity, for such purposes.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Clerk of Council and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are directed to take all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of Revenue
Notes under the terms of this ordinance and the Revolving Credit
Agreement.
All costs, fees and expenses relating to the establishment of the
Revolving Credit Agreement, the
issuance of the Revenue Notes and
the securing of the Revenue Notes
by the Pledged Revenues, including
without limitation, the fees of the
Bank and the fees and expenses of
legal counsel and the Financial
Advisor, shall be paid by the Director of Finance from the Pledged
Revenues (to the extent not paid by
the Bank).
Section 5. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from any advances
under the Revolving Credit Agreement, evidenced by the issuance of
Revenue Notes, shall be applied
solely to the payment of allowable
costs of the Approved Projects pursuant to the PFC Regulations.
Section 6. Tax Covenants.
In the event that Revenue Notes
are to be issued as obligations bearing interest to be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes (“Tax-Exempt Notes”), the
Director of Finance, or any other
officer of the City having responsibility for issuance of the TaxExempt Notes, is hereby authorized
(a) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf
of the City with respect to the TaxExempt Notes as the City is permitted or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for
in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code
or available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the TaxExempt Notes or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments of penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in

The City Record
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Tax-Exempt Notes, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the TaxExempt Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Notes, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Tax-Exempt Notes.
Section 7. Related Authorizations.
To the extent permitted under the
Revolving Credit Agreement, the
City is authorized, from time to
time, to enter into one or more
agreements in connection with or
subsequent to the issuance of Revenue Notes, for an interest rate
swap, an interest rate cap, or any
other such arrangement to lower the
effective interest rate on the Revenue Notes or to hedge the exposure
of the City against fluctuations in
prevailing interest rates (a “Rate
Exchange Agreement”). The Director of Finance is authorized, on
behalf of the City, to execute and
deliver one or more Rate Exchange
Agreements
that
he
determines,
based upon the advice of the City’s
Financial Advisor, will reduce the
net debt service charges payable on
the Revenue Notes or otherwise
enhance the timing and amount of
the payments thereof for the City’s
purposes to an extent that justifies
the cost of the City's entering into
such Rate Exchange Agreements.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Port Control, the Director of Law, the Clerk
of Council and such other officers of
the City, as may be appropriate, are
authorized and directed to furnish,
execute and deliver such documents,
certifications and instruments as
may be necessary or appropriate to
obtain and maintain the Revolving
Credit Agreement, issue Revenue
Notes, and consummate the transactions contemplated in the Revolving
Credit Agreement, Revenue Notes
and any Rate Exchange Agreement,
including, without limitation, any
amendments of FAA-approved PFC
applications of the City that may be
necessary to impose and use PFCs
to pay costs of Approved Projects,
including debt service and financing
costs pertaining to Approved Projects. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall,
upon the Bank’s request, furnish the
Bank a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other
appropriate official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
issuance of any Revenue Notes
along with such information for the
records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of the
issuance of the Revenue Notes.
Section 8. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the adoption
of this ordinance were adopted in an
open meeting of this Council, and
that all deliberations of this Coun-

383

35
cil and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were
in meetings open to the public in
compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 9. Severability.
Each section of this ordinance and
each subdivision of any section
hereof is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding
of any section or subdivision of any
section hereof to be invalid or void
shall not be deemed or held to affect
the validity of any other section or
subdivision of this ordinance.
Section 10. Recitals.
It is hereby determined and recited that all acts, conditions and
things necessary to be done precedent to and in the issuing of the
Revenue Notes and the entering into
the Revolving Credit Agreement in
order to make the same legal, valid
and
binding
special
obligations
issued by the City of Cleveland,
Ohio will have happened, been done
and performed or will happen, be
done and performed in regular and
due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the Revolving
Credit
Agreement
and
the
issuance of Revenue Notes.
Section 11. Miscellaneous.
References in this Ordinance to
any director or other official of the
City shall include such person who
may be acting as such director or
official in the absence or temporary
vacancy from office of such director
or official.
Section 12. Emergency; Effective
Date.
This ordinance is hereby declared
to be an emergency measure and,
provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 436-98.
By Mayor White and Councilmen
Westbrook, Robinson and Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to name
the roadway located in Luke Easter
Park as Larry Doby Way.
Whereas, it is most fitting and
appropriate to recognize Larry Doby
for his years of dedicated service to
the citizens of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the roadway located in Luke Easter Park is hereby
named “Larry Doby Way.”
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
give effect to this ordinance by placing of appropriate signs, nameplates
and plaques and the altering of references necessary to reflect the
naming of the roadway.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record

36
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 437-98.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Walk for Diabetes
(Walktoberfest) on October 4, 1998,
sponsored by the American Diabetes
Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Walk for Diabetes (Walktoberfest), sponsored by
the American Diabetes Association,
on October 4, 1998, starting at Nuatica
Stage/Power
House,
West
Banks of the Flats, west on Main
Ave. to Center St., east on Center St.
to Columbus Rd., east on Columbus
Rd. to Merwin Ave., north on Merwin Ave. to W. Superior Ave., east
on W. Superior to Public Square,
south on Public Square to Ontario
Ave., south on Ontario Ave. to
Huron Rd., east on Huron Rd. to
Prospect to E. 14 St., north on E. 9th
St.
to
Erieside
Ave.,
west
on
Erieside Ave. to W. 3rd St., south on
W. 3rd St. to Lakeside Ave., west on
Lakeside Ave. to W. 9th St., north
on W. 9th St. to Front Ave., west on
Front Ave. to Old River Rd., south
on Old River Rd. to Merwin Center
St., south on Merwin to Columbus
Rd., west on Columbus Rd. to Center Rd., west on Center Rd. to Main
Ave., east on Main Ave. to the
Boardwalk, east on the Boardwalk
and
back
to
the
Nautica
Stage/Power House, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police or safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the

participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998.
Ord. No. 438-98.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Nation of
Islam — East 55th Street and Woodland Avenue).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to peddle upon the public
rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of
the
Codified
Ordinances,
to
allow each person named below to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5, at the
locations specified: Nation of Islam
at East 55th Street and Woodland
Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.

March 18, 1998
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 9, 1998.
Effective March 16, 1998 without
the signature of the Mayor.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Thursday, March 5, 1998
Finance Committee (Budget Hearings): 9:30 A.M. — Present: Johnson,
Chairman; Westbrook, Vice Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena, Patmon,
Polensek, Sweeney, Zone. Excused:
Robinson, Rybka.
Friday, March 6, 1998
Finance Committee (Budget Hearings): 9:30 A.M. — Present: Johnson,
Chairman; Westbrook, Vice Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena, Patmon,
Polensek, Rybka, Sweeney, Zone.
Excused: Robinson.
Monday, March 9, 1998
Finance Committee (Budget Hearings): 9:30 A.M. — Present: Johnson,
Chairman; Westbrook, Vice Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena, Polensek,
Robinson,
Rybka,
Sweeney,
Zone. Excused: Patmon.
Tuesday, March 10, 1998
Finance Committee (Budget Hearings): 9:30 A.M. — Present: Johnson,
Chairman; Westbrook, Vice Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena, Patmon,
Polensek, Rybka, Sweeney, Zone.
Excused: Robinson.
Wednesday, March 11, 1998
Community and Economic Development Committee (Block Grant): 9 : 0 0
A.M. — Present: Jackson, Chairman; Robinson, Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Coats, Gordon, Lewis, Zone.
Excused: Cintron, Jones.

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Appropriations
Appropriations for current expenses and other expenditures of the City of Cleveland —
for the year 1998. (O 194-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360-362
Banners
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard and Shaker Boulevard — Health Hill Hospital for
Children — banners on CPP and CEI poles (O 2103-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
Block Grants
Block Grant — $30,248,000 — apply for and accept; U. S. Dept. of HUD — $9,239,000 —
implement 1998 Federal Home Grant Program — 1998 Emergency Shelter Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 195-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370

384

March 18, 1998

The City Record

37

Board of Education
Authorizing - Director - Parks, Recreation and Properties - enter into agreement - Board
of Education - Cleveland City School District - construction and maintenance - two
ball diamonds - Clara Westropp Elementary School (O 480-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359
Budget
Appropriations for current expenses and other expenditures of the City of Cleveland —
for the year 1998. (O 194-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360-362
City Planning Commission
Vacate a portion of Stuber Court N.E. (O 1781-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Determining the method - public improvement of implementing Phase II - sound insulation
program for homes - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - authorizing Director
to employ professional consultants (O 469-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Revolving Credit Agreement — Special Revenue Notes — $10,000,000 — for costs of
acquiring residential property and relocating residents to mitigate the impact of
airport noise - - CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration. (O 200-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Cleveland Municipal Court
Authorizing and Directing - Director of Finance - on behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court
- enter into contract with Legal Aid Society of Cleveland - legal services necessary
to defend indigents charged with violation of City ordinances. (O 287-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Urging Ohio State Legislature - to adopt legislation that will permit judges in the
Housing Court Division - Municipal Court - refer certain criminal cases
to magistrates. (R 435-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Codified Ordinances
Amend 403.99 - Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 - as enacted - Ordinance No.
91-96 - relating to traffic code misdemeanor classifications and penalties
(O 472-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Communications
Donated - $500.00 - The Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - purchase of equipment
- Division of Police - Department of Public Safety. (F 460-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency Requisition (RE-01769) - Division of Purchases & Supplies. (F 462-98) . . . . . . . . . . .
Excess Property - Reference No. 004-98 - Division of Purchases & Supplies.
(F 459-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Received - letters - from various entities - apprising the Council - residential
development project located in various wards - various funding programs and tax
credits - Ohio Housing Finance Agency. (F 417-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirement Contract/Monthly Report - March, 1998 - Division of Purchases & Supplies.
(F 461-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 351
. . . . . . . . . . . 351
. . . . . . . . . . . 351

. . . . . . . . . . . 351
. . . . . . . . . . . 351

Community Development
Authorizing - Director - Community Development - apply for and accept a grant - State of
Ohio Department of Develop- ment - State Home Weatherization Assistance Program enter into contract - for the purpose of- providing assistance (O 474-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 86th Street, 1790 - Albert L. Owens and Cynthia L. Owens (O 475-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McElhatten Avenue, 13713-15 - Frances R. Carson (O 473-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Ohio State Legislature - to adopt legislation that will permit judges in the
Housing Court Division - Municipal Court - refer certain criminal cases
to magistrates. (R 435-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1437 - Cleveland Housing Network, Incorporated (O 476-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 355

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 356

Community Development Block Grant Program
Block Grant — $30,248,000 — apply for and accept; U. S. Dept. of Hud — $9,239,000 —
implement 1998 Federal Home Grant Program — 1998 Emergency Shelter Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 195-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Condolences
Jontony, Henry (R 483-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Congratulations
Cleveland Human Rights Campaign (R 485-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Dever, Walter P. (R 486-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Gibbons, Thomas J. (R 484-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

385

The City Record

38

March 18, 1998

Economic Development Department
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Office Max, Inc. - City-owned property
- Village of Highland Hills (O 478-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Metropolitan Savings Bank of Cleveland
- City- owned property located in the Village of Highland Hills (O 477-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Emergency Shelter Grant Program
Block Grant — $30,248,000 — apply for and accept; U. S. Dept. of Hud — $9,239,000 —
implement 1998 Federal Home Grant Program — 1998 Emergency Shelter Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 195-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Encroachments
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard and Shaker Boulevard — Health Hill Hospital for
Children — banners on CPP and CEI poles (O 2103-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
Federal Aviation Administration
Revolving Credit Agreement — Special Revenue Notes — $10,000,000 — for costs of
acquiring residential property and relocating residents to mitigate the impact of
airport noise - - CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration. (O 200-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Federal Home Grant Program
Block Grant — $30,248,000 — apply for and accept; U. S. Dept. of HUD — $9,239,000 —
implement 1998 Federal Home Grant Program — 1998 Emergency Shelter Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 195-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Finance Department
Appropriations for current expenses and other expenditures of the City of Cleveland —
for the year 1998. (O 194-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360-362
Authorize - Director of Finance - obtain substitute credit enhancement or liquidity
facility - City’s subordinated income tax variable rate refunding bonds - series 1994
- execute agreements (O 467-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Authorizing and Directing - Director of Finance - on behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court
- enter into contract with Legal Aid Society of Cleveland - legal services necessary
to defend indigents charged with violation of City ordinances. (O 287-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Authorizing and Directing - Director of Finance- pay cost of extraction -1996 Ohio income
tax master file data. (O 289-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-371
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract of office supplies - various
divisions of City government - period of one year with one option to renew for two
consecutive years. (O 288-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - standard wire - various
divisions - not to exceed two years. (O 291-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-371
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - typewriter maintenance and
repair - various divisions - not to exceed two years. (O 292-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-371
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - pole painting - various
divisions - not to exceed two years. (O 293-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-371
Authorizing and Directing — purchase by requirement contract of lumber — various
divisions of City government — not to exceed years (O 286-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Housing Court
Urging Ohio State Legislature - to adopt legislation that will permit judges in the
Housing Court Division - Municipal Court - refer certain criminal cases
to magistrates. (R 435-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program
Block Grant — $30,248,000 — apply for and accept; U. S. Dept. of HUD — $9,239,000 —
implement 1998 Federal Home Grant Program — 1998 Emergency Shelter Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 195-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370
Land Reutilization Program
East 86th Street, 1790 - Albert L. Owens and Cynthia L. Owens (O 475-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
McElhatten Avenue, 13713-15 - Frances R. Carson (O 473-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
West 58th Street, 1437 - Cleveland Housing Network, Incorporated (O 476-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
Legal Aid Society
Authorizing and Directing - Director of Finance - on behalf of Cleveland Municipal Court
- enter into contract with Legal Aid Society of Cleveland - legal services necessary
to defend indigents charged with violation of City ordinances. (O 287-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361-370

386

March 18, 1998

The City Record

39

Liquor Permits
11703 Union Avenue - Objecting (R 482-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15239 Triskett Avenue - Withdrawing objection - repealing Res. No. 1521-97
(R 481-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3074 West 14th Street - Withdrawing objection - repealing Res. No. 1943-97
(R 439-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3135 West 63rd Street, 1st floor and basement - Withdrawing objection - repealing Res.
No. 1547-97. (R 443-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3249 East 143rd Street - Withdrawing objection - repealing Res. No. 98-98.
(R 441-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3824 East 65th Street, 1st floor - Withdrawing objection - repealing Res. No. 1515-97
(R 440-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3916 East 123rd Street - Withdrawing objection - repealing Res. No. 1101-97.
(R 442-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 3604-12, first floor (Ward 5) - Stock Transfer Application
(F 466-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Lorain Road, 18599 (Ward 21) - New Application (F 464-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Road, 19900 (Ward 21) - New Application (F 465-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 11703 (Ward 3) - New Application (F 463-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

351
351
351
351

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Authorizing and Directing - Public Service -enter into contract - without competitive
bidding with E.J. Ward, Inc. - purchase of spare replacement parts - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division. (O 148-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract of gasoline - Motor Vehicle
Maintenance Division - Public Service Department. (O 153-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division - Public Service Department.
(O 150-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract of anti-freeze - Motor
Vehicle Maintenance Division - Public Service Department. (O 152-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Public Service Department. (O 149-98) . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division - Public Service Department.
(O 151-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase by requirement contract — labor and materials — Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Division — Service Department (O 147-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379

Ohio Department of Development
Authorizing - Director - Community Development - apply for and accept a grant - State of
Ohio Department of Development - State Home Weatherization Assistance Program enter into contract - for the purpose of- providing assistance (O 474-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
Ohio Department of Public Health
Authorizing - Director of Public Health - apply for and accept a grant - Ohio Department
of Health - 1998 Federal AIDS Prevention Program - enter into contract with various
entities (O 470-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Authorizing - Director - Parks, Recreation and Properties - enter into agreement - Board
of Education - Cleveland City School District - construction and maintenance - two
ball diamonds - Clara Westropp Elementary School (O 480-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Metropolitan Savings Bank of Cleveland
- City- owned property located in the Village of Highland Hills (O 477-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Office Max, Inc. - City-owned property
- Village of Highland Hills (O 478-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To name roadway — located in Luke Easter Park — as Larry Doby Way (O 436-98) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 359

. . . . . . . . . . . 357

. . . . . . . . . . . 358
. . . . . . . . . . . 383

Peddlers
Engage in peddling in Ward 5 - John Nichols/Nation of Islam (O 479-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359
Engage in peddling in Ward 5 — Nation of Islam (O 438-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384

387

The City Record

40

March 18, 1998

Permits
Consenting and approving — issuance of permit — Walk for Diabetes (Walktoberfest) on
October 4, 1998 — sponsored by the American Diabetes Association (O 437-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Port Control Department
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- associated appurtenances - various divisions - Department of Port Control
(O 468-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method - public improvement of implementing Phase II - sound insulation
program for homes - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - authorizing Director
to employ professional consultants (O 469-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employ one or more professional consultants to provide engineering and other services —
provide program and construction management for five-year capital improvement program
(O 1290-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Revolving Credit Agreement — Special Revenue Notes — $10,000,000 — for costs of
acquiring residential property and relocating residents to mitigate the impact of
airport noise - - CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration. (O 200-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 352

. . . . . . . . . 352

. . . . . . . . . 378

. . . . . . . . . 381

Public Health Department
Authorizing - Director of Public Health - apply for and accept a grant - Ohio Department
of Health - 1998 Federal AIDS Prevention Program - enter into contract with various
entities (O 470-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Service Department
Authorizing and Directing - Public Service -enter into contract - without competitive
bidding with E.J. Ward, Inc. - purchase of spare replacement parts - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division. (O 148-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - reclamite asphalt
rejuvenating agent - Division of Streets - Department of Public Service (O 471-98) . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Public Service Department. (O 149-98) . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division - Public Service Department.
(O 150-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - labor and materials
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division - Public Service Department.
(O 151-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract of anti-freeze - Motor
Vehicle Maintenance Division - Public Service Department. (O 152-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract of gasoline - Motor Vehicle
Maintenance Division - Public Service Department. (O 153-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase by requirement contract — labor and materials — Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Division — Service Department (O 147-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacate a portion of Stuber Court N.E. (O 1781-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

Streets — Name
To name roadway — located in Luke Easter Park — as Larry Doby Way (O 436-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383
Streets - Vacation
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1941-97 - relating to vacation of a portion of Iliad
Court, S.W. and West 22nd. (O 199-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
East 96th Street — vacation (R 630-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Streets Division
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - reclamite asphalt
rejuvenating agent - Division of Streets - Department of Public Service (O 471-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Village of Highland Hills
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Office Max, Inc. - City-owned property
- Village of Highland Hills (O 478-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Metropolitan Savings Bank of Cleveland
- City- owned property located in the Village of Highland Hills (O 477-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357

388

