The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

June the Third, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Eight

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Artha Woods
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Larry Moran
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
66
67
71
72
72
74
74
75
76
78
78

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ..............................................15601 Lotus Drive
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman ......................................1428 Fairfield Avenue
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3032 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.........................................1813 Tampa Avenue
Larry Moran .............................................3584 West 46th Street
Timothy J. Melena ........................6109 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council–Artha Woods, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk–Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Laura Ann Williams, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Milan T. Polacek, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
DEPT. OF LAW – Sylvester Su mmers, Jr., Director, Lessie M. Milton,
Chief Counsel, Room 106
George A. Pace, Jr., Chief Asst. Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice
Center, 8th Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Gayle Goodwin Smith, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – ________________, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Commissioner, 1404 E.
9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Acting Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Stephen Sheehan, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Larry Hines, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – JoMarie Wasik, Acting Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kenneth Nobilio, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Robert O. Staib, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue.
DIVISIONS – Health – Joyce Atwell-Joyce, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Eric Myles, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925
St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY –William M. Denihan, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Rocco Pollutro, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – David Ritz, Commissioner, 2001 Payne Ave.
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 1708 South
Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Nicholas P. Jackson,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium– James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner, East 49th &
Harvard

Parking Facilities – Alfred T. Miller, Jr., Acting Commissioner, Public
Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties –Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT –Terri Hamilton, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Terri Hamilton, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Joseph Nolan,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Susan E. Axelrod, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Cornell P. Carter, Acting

Director; Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele
Springman, Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward
Rybka, City Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie,
Charles E. McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary
Jan Buckshot, Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen,
Barbara S. Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Cynthia Sullivan,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Sylvester

Summers, Jr., President; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr., Secretary;
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Henry Guzmán;

Law Director Sylvester Summers, Jr.; Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Sylvester

Summers, Jr.; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Rev. Albert T. Rowan, Chairman; ____________, Vice Chairman, David
Bowen, Anthony J. Coyne, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney,
Councilman Edward W. Rybka.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Sylvester Summers, Jr.;
Chairman; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr.; Council President Jay
Westbrook; Councilman Roosevelt Coats; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Raymond Ossovicki,
Chairman; _____________, Anton J. Eichmuller, Samuel Montfort
J. Gilbert Steele, Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chrm.;
Earl S. Bumgarner, _______________, Jozef Valencik, Martin Gallagher,
Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
CLEV ELAND LANDMA RKS COMMISS ION – Ro o m 519 ,__ ___ _ __ ,
Director; R. Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Robert
Keiser, Secretary; Judge Lillian Burke, James Gibans, Hunter Morrison,
Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Randall Shorr, Shirley Thompson,
Councilman Craig E. Willis.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, John J. O’Toole–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 3, 1998

Vol. 85

No. 4408

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JUNE 1, 1998
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.00 per month
Address all communications to

ARTHA WOODS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Coats,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan, Jones, Lewis, Moran, Polensek.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Rybka, Chairman; Robinson,
Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Jackson, White, Willis, Zone.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
&
Recreation
Committee: Willis,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Britt, Lewis, Polensek, Sweeney,
White.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Jackson, Melena, Robinson.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Cintron,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Johnson, Jones,
Melena, Moran, Patmon, Polensek.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Moran, Vice Chairman;Britt, Cintron, Gordon, Lewis,
Johnson.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Johnson, Chairman;
Westbrook,
Vice
Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena,
Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka,
Sweeney, Zone.
TUESDAY
10:00 A.M.—Community and Economic Development Committee: Jackson,
Chairman;
Robinson,
Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Coats, Gordon, Jones, Lewis, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Zone, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Dolan, Johnson, Rybka.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Cimperman,
Dolan,
Patmon,
White,
Willis.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Coats, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Gordon, Jackson, Jones,
Melena, Moran, White, Willis.

Cleveland, Ohio June 1, 1998.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the Council Majority
Leader, Roosevelt Coats in the Chair.
Councilmen present: Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis,
Moran, Patmon, Polensek, Robinson,
Rybka, Sweeney, Willis, Zone.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Summers, Carmody,
Konicek, Guzman, Staib, Denihan,
Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan, Axelrod,
Carter, Morrison, and Acting Directors Sheffield-McClain, Huth.
Absent: Director Warren.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rev. Robert Andrews, Pastor of St. Phillip
the Apostle Episcopal Church and
St. Agnes Mission for the Deaf,
located in Ward 15. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Councilman
Robinson, the Clerk was instructed
to correct the journal of the May 4,
1998, meeting of the Council (City
Record Volume 85, Page 646) by
striking the following:
“Ord. No. 1279-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Rybka and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering
services necessary to design the
relocation of Brook Park Road.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end of the
second paragraph, add the following
sentence: “Prior to such Board of
Control selection the Director of
Port Control shall notify the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee, in writing, of
the proposed consultant and the
pending selection of such consultant
by the Board.”.

825

2. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert the following:
”; to enact new Section 8 and to
renumber existing Section 8 as new
Section 9.”.
3. Insert new Sections 2 and 3 to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 2. That Ordinance No. 93095, passed June 19, 1995, as amended by Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed
December 18, 1995, is hereby supplemented by enacting new Section
8 to read as follows:
Section 8. That no properties
acquired pursuant to this ordinance
will be resold to any third parties
without the prior approval of Council through the passage of legislation.
Section 3. That existing Section 8
of Ordinance No. 930-95, passed June
19, 1995, as amended by Ordinance
No. 2150-95, passed December 18,
1995, is hereby renumbered to new
“Section 9”.
Amendments agreed to.”
and inserting in lieu thereof:
“Ord. No. 1279-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Rybka and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering
services necessary to design the
relocation of Brook Park Road.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end of the
second paragraph, add the following
sentence: “Prior to such Board of
Control selection the Director of
Port Control shall notify the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee in writing, of
the proposed consultant and the
pending selection of such consultant
by the Board.”.
Amendment agreed to.”
and by striking the following:
“Ord. No. 307-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Westbrook, Rybka and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 930-95, passed June 19, 1995, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2150-95,
passed December 18, 1995, relating
to the acquisition boundaries of real
property located in the vicinity of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Recommended by Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, City
Planning, Finance, when amended
as follows:

The City Record

4
1. Insert the following Whereas
clause before the existing one:
“Whereas a full effort is to be
made by the Administration to tender purchase offers to homeowners
before the end of 1998; and
Amendment agreed to.”
and inserting in lieu thereof:
“Ord. No. 307-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Westbrook, Rybka and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 930-95, passed June 19, 1995, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2150-95,
passed December 18, 1995, relating
to the acquisition boundaries of real
property located in the vicinity of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Approved by the Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Recommended by Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, City
Planning, Finance, when amended
as follows:
1. Insert the following Whereas
clause before the existing one:
“Whereas, a full effort is to be
made by the Administration to tender purchase offers to homeowners
before the end of 1998; and
2. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert the following:
”; to enact new Section 8 and to
renumber existing Section 8 as new
Section 9.”.
3. Insert new Sections 2 and 3 to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 2. That Ordinance No. 93095, passed June 19, 1995, as amended by Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed
December 18, 1995, is hereby supplemented by enacting new Section
8 to read as follows:
Section 8. That no properties
acquired pursuant to this ordinance
will be resold to any third parties
without the prior approval of Council through the passage of legislation.
Section 3. That existing Section 8
of Ordinance No. 930-95, passed June
19, 1995, as amended by Ordinance
No. 2150-95, passed December 18,
1995, is hereby renumbered to new
“Section 9”.
Amendments agreed to.”
and, further, that the Clerk was
instructed to publish these ordinances correctly in the June 3, 1998,
City Record. The reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 954-98.
From the Department of Public
Utilities re: Notice to Council of Subsidiary Agreement. Received.
File No. 955-98.
From the Department of Public
Utilities re: Nerone & Sons Inc. Contract No. 51070A&B, has been completed and accepted on December 5,
1997. Received.
File No. 956-98.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Sales Request No.
90161, for sale or lease of property
North Side of Mt. Overlook Avenue
and East 124th Street. Received.
File No. 957-98.
From the Department of Port Control re: Notification of “Set Aside”
Req. #13524. Received.

File No. 958-98.
From Cleveland Energy Resources
re: Copy of Agreement with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority. Received.
File No. 959-98.
From the Department of Port Control re: Notification of “Set Aside”
Req. #13558. Received.
File No. 960-98.
From the Playhouse Square Center re: Modified Articles of Incorporation, which govern the activities
of the corporation. Received.
File No. 961-98.
From
Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority re: North Coast Harbor
Report pursuant to the Common
Area Maintenance Agreement dated
January 1, 1995. Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 962-98.
Re: New Application - 1741148 Corbo Properties LTD LLC, 12312
Mayfield Road, first floor and basement. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 963-98.
Re: New Application - 54075040005 Madaba Inc. dba Quick Stop, 6017
Quincy Avenue. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 964-98.
Re: New Application - 36356500005 Harry
John
Inc.,
8502
Quincy
Avenue. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 965-98.
Re: New Application - 1783507 Idell Cowan dba All My Children
Mini Mart, 3125 East 65th Street.
(Ward 12). Received.
File No. 966-98.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 0072349 Aetfood Inc. dba
Aetna Food Market, 3661 East 93rd
Street, first floor and basement.
(Ward 2). Received.
File No. 967-98.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 4103675 190 LTD LLC, 812
Huron Road, first floor unit 6R3.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 968-98.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 1512775 - City
Restaurant Management Corp, dba
Vico, 1850-75 East 6th Street. (Ward
13). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 969-98.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract No. 51184, for Groton Park.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote.
Res. No. 1019-98. Shirley D. Harville.
Res. No. 1020-98. Susie Mae Rutherford.
CONGRATULATORY RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection.

826

June 3, 1998
Res. No. 1021-98. American Business
Women’s Association.
Res. No. 1022-98. Emily Laster.
Res. No. 1023-98. Edward R. Wesolowski.
Res. No. 1024-98. Ricki M. Neubecker.
Res. No. 1025-98. Pipefitters Local
Union #120.
Res. No. 1026-98. Ward One 1998
LifeTime Achievement Recipients.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection.
Res. No. 1027-98. Dr. Mitchel Nathaniel Toney.
Res. No. 1028-98. International Theatre Exchange.
Res. No. 1029-98. Fairchild Jeep
Eagle.
Res. No. 1030-98. “Take Up Space
and Declaration of Space Leadership
Week”.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 978-98.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance approving and ratifying an agreement
with Norfolk Southern Corporation
and Norfolk Southern Railway Company to ameliorate adverse environmental impacts due to changes in
rail traffic resulting from the railroads’ acquisition of certain Conrail
assets.
Whereas, on June 23, 1997, Norfolk
Southern Corporation and Norfolk
Southern Railway Company (“NS”)
and
CSX
Corporation
and
CSX
Transportation, Inc. (“CSX”) filed a
joint application with the Surface
Transportation
Board
(“Board”)
seeking authority for NS and CSX to
acquire and divide certain assets of
Conrail; and
Whereas, Cleveland intervened in
the proceeding before the Board in
order to avoid significant adverse
environmental
impacts
resulting
from anticipated increases in rail
traffic in Cleveland’s neighborhoods
should the Board approve the joint
application; and
Whereas, on May 22, 1998, the
Mayor executed a Memorandum of
Agreement with NS which, subject
to ratification and approval by this
Council, would commit NS to make
changes to its Operating Plan, capital investments in Cleveland and
financial contributions to Cleveland
in order to ameliorate and mitigate
the adverse environmental impacts
in
Cleveland
resulting
from
increases in rail traffic by NS and
would result in significant benefits
to the City and its residents; and
Whereas, this Council hereby ratifies and approves the agreement
made by the Mayor and NS; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any ordinance to the contrary, this
Council hereby ratifies and approves
the Memorandum of Agreement with
Norfolk Southern Corporation and
Norfolk Southern Railway Company
to ameliorate certain adverse environmental impacts due to changes
in rail traffic resulting from the

June 3, 1998
railroads’ acquisition of certain Conrail assets, which was executed by
the Mayor and NS on May 22, 1998
and reads as follows:
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This Memorandum of Agreement
is entered into this 22nd day of May,
1998 by and between the City of
Cleveland, Ohio, by and through its
Mayor and subject to the approval
of the City Council, and Norfolk
Southern Corporation and Norfolk
Southern
Railway
Company,
by
their undersigned Chairman/President/Chief Executive Officer.
Whereas, Norfolk Southern Corporation and Norfolk Southern Railway Company (collectively, “NS”)
are among the Applicants in the
railroad control proceeding currently pending before the United States
Surface Transportation Board (the
“STB”) under Finance Docket No.
33388 (the “Conrail Application”), in
which NS and CSX Corporation and
CSX Transportation, Inc. (collectively, “CSX”) are seeking authority to
jointly acquire Conrail, Inc. and
Consolidated Rail Corporation (collectively, “Conrail”) and to thereafter separately operate parts of the
rail lines, facilities and other assets
of Conrail; and
Whereas, NS submitted to the STB
an Operating Plan and Environmental Report as part of the Conrail
Application,
which
submissions
describe certain changes in rail traffic and operations that are projected to result from the Conrail Transaction (the “Transaction”); and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio (“Cleveland” or the “City”) has
participated as a party in the proceedings at the STB regarding the
Conrail Application and has in filings and comments submitted to the
STB requested that the STB order
NS and CSX to take certain actions
to avoid what the City has described
as significant adverse environmental impacts of the Transaction upon
the City and its residents, or alternatively, that the STB condition any
approval of the Conrail Application
on the imposition of various conditions designed to mitigate such
impacts; and
Whereas, the STB’s Section of
Environmental
Analysis
(“SEA”)
issued
a
Draft
Environmental
Impact Statement (“DEIS”) with
respect to the Conrail Application in
December 1997 which included a
characterization of the City as a
community with “unique circumstances” and directed NS to consult
with government agencies, elected
officials and interested parties in
Cleveland regarding certain projected train traffic increases on certain
lines to be operated by NS postTransaction in Cleveland; and
Whereas, NS and the City have
engaged in such consultations with
the goal of reaching agreement on
mitigation measures to ameliorate
the adverse environmental impacts
in
Cleveland
of
the
projected
changes in rail traffic and operations on rail lines and facilities to
be operated by NS post-Transaction
resulting from the Transaction; and
Whereas, the City recognizes the
concerns of its neighboring communities,
particularly
the
City
of
Berea, Ohio, regarding potential
adverse impacts of the Transaction,
and has sought to reach an agreement with NS that does not harm the
interests of those communities while
preserving the right and ability of
those communities to pursue their

The City Record
own agreements to protect the interests of residents and businesses
located therein; and
Whereas, NS and the City have
reached agreement on such mitigation measures and have made certain other commitments to each
other
as
described
hereinafter,
including but not limited to certain
commitments by NS to make certain
changes to its Operating Plan, certain capital investments and certain
financial contributions for mitigation of Transaction impacts and for
the benefit of the City; and
Whereas, the Mayor has agreed to
recommend to the Council of the
City of Cleveland that it approve
this Agreement and authorize the
Mayor and the appropriate Directors
of the City to take such further
actions as are necessary to effectuate the terms hereof;
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED
AS FOLLOWS:
I. Modifications to Operating Plan.
In consideration of the concerns of
Cleveland and other communities in
the Greater Cleveland area about
increases in train frequencies projected for certain of the lines that
NS will operate following approval
by the Surface Transportation Board
of
the
Conrail
Application,
NS
agrees to modify its original Operating Plan. The modifications to the
Operating
Plan
are
summarized
herein and are described more fully
in NS’ Mitigation Proposal for Train
Frequencies in Greater Cleveland
and Vicinity, which was submitted
to the STB on April 16, 1998 (hereinafter, the “Mitigation Proposal”).
A. Cloggsville Connection Construction: NS agrees to construct
what is termed the “Cloggsville Connection,” which construction is comprised
of
two
main
elements:
upgrading the rail lines and facilities between the NS Nickel Plate
line at Cloggsville and the Conrail
Lakefront line at CP-190 to doubletrack main line standards through
changes
and
improvements
to
tracks, bridges, connections, signals
and other appurtenant rail facilities,
as described more fully in the Mitigation
Proposal;
and
building
approximately 7,950 feet of new rail
line to connect two parallel rail
lines that are approximately 2,100
feet apart, thereby creating a double connection at Vermilion between
NS’ Nickel Plate line and the Conrail Chicago line to be operated by
NS post-Transaction, instead of the
single connection described in NS’
original
Operating
Plan,
as
described more fully in the Mitigation Proposal.
1. Funding: The cost of the construction and improvements to the
rail lines and facilities between
Cloggsville and CP-190 is currently
estimated at $24,350,000. The cost of
constructing a double connection at
Vermilion is currently estimated at
$3,000,000 more than constructing the
single
connection originally
proposed in the Operating Plan. NS
hereby commits to fund up to the
full cost of these Cloggsville Connection projects. (NS previously committed in its Operating Plan to
spend the approximately $2,587,000
needed to construct a single connection at Vermilion.) NS’ commitment
to fund up to the full cost of these
projects is not limited to the current
cost estimates contained herein.
2. Schedule: NS estimates that construction of the double connection at
Vermilion will take three to five

827

5
months to complete, and that construction of the improvements to the
rail lines and facilities between
Cloggsville and CP-190 will take 18
to 24 months to complete, and NS
hereby agrees to use its best efforts
to complete these construction projects within these time frames. NS
will commence implementation of
both elements of the Cloggsville
Connection projects within ten days
of the date on which the approval
by the STB of the Conrail Application has become effective, and NS
will
advance
completion
thereof
with reasonable expedition in view
of operating, engineering and other
construction-related constraints, and
any need to obtain additional governmental approvals.
3. Government Approvals. NS commitment to construct the Cloggsville
Connection project and to do so in
accordance
with
the
schedule
detailed above is subject to the
acquisition of any necessary federal, state and local regulatory, governmental, environmental and other
permits, approvals and authorizations for the projects specified herein, including but not limited to any
necessary
and
applicable
STB
approvals. NS shall make all necessary
efforts
to
obtain
such
approvals within a time frame that
will permit completion of the projects within the estimated time
frames described in Section I. A. 2.
hereof.
4. Removal/Relocation of Utility
Facilities. If the Cloggsville Connection construction requires the
removal and/or relocation of any
electric utility poles or facilities, the
allocation of cost of such removal
and/or relocation shall be determined in accordance with existing
easements, licenses and other agreements applicable to such utility
poles or facilities; and NS specifically agrees that no order of the
STB approving the Conrail Application or any part thereof shall be
interpreted to preempt the application of the terms of any such existing easements, licenses or other
agreements to any such removal or
relocation. NS will cooperate with
the applicable utility company to
minimize or avoid interruption of
service to utility customers.
B.
Rerouting
of
Trains
from
Nickel Plate to Conrail Lines: NS
agrees to further modify its Operating Plan as follows. Within twenty
(20) days after completion of construction of the double connection at
Vermilion, NS will reroute approximately 10.6 trains per day from a
Rochester, PA — Youngstown, OH
— Ashtabula, OH — Cleveland
(Cloggsville) — Vermilion routing
through Cleveland via the NS Nickel Plate line (as provided in the
original
Operating
Plan),
to
a
Rochester, PA — Alliance, OH —
White, OH — Cleveland (CP 181) —
Berea, OH — Vermilion routing
through Cleveland via Conrail lines
to be operated by NS post-Transaction. Once this rerouting is accomplished, NS projects that average
daily freight train traffic on the
Nickel Plate line will be approximately 26.0 trains between Ashtabula and Cleveland (Cloggsville) and
approximately 23.5 trains between
Cleveland (Cloggsville) and Vermilion.
C. Rerouting of Trains from Nickel Plate to Cloggsville Connection
Route: NS agrees to further modify
its Operating Plan as follows. Within twenty (20) days after completion
of the construction and improve-

6
ments to the lines and facilities
between Cloggsville and CP-190, NS
will reroute approximately 9.6 trains
per day from a Cleveland (Cloggsville) to Vermilion routing via the
NS Nickel Plate line (as provided in
the original Operating Plan) to the
Cleveland (Cloggsville) — CP-190 —
Berea — Vermilion routing created
by virtue of the aforesaid construction and improvements. Once this
rerouting is accomplished, NS projects that average daily freight
train traffic on the following line
segments will be: Cleveland (Cloggsville) to CP-190 — 13.8; CP-190 to
Berea — 63.1; Berea to Vermilion —
55.1.
D. Revisions to Traffic Projections: Table 1, attached hereto, contains the average daily freight train
traffic projections from NS’ original
Operating Plan for the lines to be
operated by NS in Cleveland and the
Greater Cleveland area post-Transaction. NS agrees to modify its Operating Plan by substituting the average daily freight train traffic projections
contained
in
Table
2,
attached hereto, for these lines.
Once the rerouting associated with
completion of the full Cloggsville
Connection is accomplished, the projections contained in Table 2 hereto
will be in effect, including the following projections of average daily
freight train traffic: 26.0 trains on
the
Nickel
Plate
line
between
Ashtabula
and
Cleveland
(Cloggsville); 13.9 trains on the Nickel
Plate line between Cleveland (Cloggsville) and Vermilion; 40.3 trains
on the Pittsburgh line (currently
operated
by
Conrail)
between
White, OH and Cleveland (CP-181);
53.5 trains on the Lakefront line
(currently
operated
by
Conrail)
between CP-181 and CP-190, 13.8
trains on the “Cloggsville Connection” line between Cleveland (Cloggsville) and CP-190; and 63.1 trains
on the Lakefront line between CP190 and Berea, OH.
II. Grade Separation Projects. Subject to the approval of the projects
by the appropriate state authorities
and the availability and commitment of funding from federal, state
and other public sources necessary
to complete the projects, NS agrees
to contribute up to $1,500,000 in the
aggregate toward two grade separation projects, one at Dille Road
and one at London Road. The total
cost of the Dille Road and London
Road grade separation projects is
estimated to be $13,500,000. It is
expected that amounts exceeding
NS’ contribution will come from public sources, including but not limited to funds provided by the federal
government and/or the Ohio Rail
Development Commission. NS shall
pay its portion of the cost of each
of these projects in accordance with
such schedule(s) as may be established by the appropriate government agency or agencies with jurisdiction over the projects.
III. Community Impacts Fund. In
consideration of Cleveland’s concerns about adverse environmental
impacts from the Transaction, and
in order to assist Cleveland with
mitigation thereof, NS will provide
a total amount of $10,000,000 (ten
million dollars) to Cleveland over a
period of five years for a Community Impacts Fund (“CIF”) to be
established by the City.
A. Schedule of NS Payments. NS
will make payments to Cleveland to
fund the CIF as follows: An initial

The City Record
payment of $2,000,000 (two million
dollars) will be made no later than
30 days after the date on which the
STB’s approval of the Transaction
has become effective; the balance of
$8,000,000 (eight million dollars)
will be paid in four equal annual
installments, each installment of
$2,000,000 (two million dollars) to be
paid no later than 12 months after
the prior payment.
B. Purpose and Use of CIF. Cleveland will utilize the CIF at its sole
discretion for mitigation projects
designed to mitigate what the City
deems to be adverse environmental
impacts resulting from the Transaction and associated with the rail
lines and facilities that will be operated in Cleveland by NS post-Transaction. Such impacts may include,
but are not limited to, those in the
areas of noise and vibration, emergency response and vehicular delay,
hazardous materials transport and
response, pedestrian and vehicular
safety, grade crossing maintenance,
and cultural preservation. CIF funds
may be used for purposes determined by the City to be related to
protection of the City’s neighborhoods from the adverse impacts of
the Transaction, which may include
but are not limited to projects
designed to mitigate some or all of
these impacts, including but not limited to noise mitigation projects,
hazardous materials training and
equipment, grade crossing maintenance projects, home value guarantees, fencing projects adjacent to
parks and other pedestrian safety
projects,
landscaping,
a
maintenance endowment fund and other
projects that, in the sole discretion
of the City, are reasonably related
to the impacts of the Transaction
and are associated with the lines
and facilities to be operated by NS
post-Transaction. It is also understood that the City may expend up
to $250,000 of CIF monies as “seed
money” for the furtherance of proposals to preserve and enhance the
Mill Creek Waterfall and to better
incorporate the Mill Creek Waterfall
into the Cleveland Metroparks in the
event and to the extent that the City
determines
that
such
proposals
merit such expenditures.
C. Establishment and Administration of CIF. The CIF shall be established and administered solely by
the City or its duly appointed
designee(s). NS agrees to participate as a consultant to the City
and/or its designee(s) with respect
to CIF matters affecting or relating
to NS operations or property. Cleveland shall have sole responsibility
for selecting, managing and maintaining
CIF
mitigation
projects,
except as stated hereinafter.
D.
Construction/Installation
of
Noise
Mitigation
Structures
and
Landscaping. The City may, in its
discretion, utilize CIF funds for noise
walls, noise barriers and/or other
structures, improvements, equipment
or appurtenances designed to mitigate noise (hereinafter, collectively,
“noise mitigation structures”) as well
as for landscaping designed to mitigate noise or visual impacts (hereinafter “landscaping”). To the extent
that any such projects are to be constructed or installed on NS’ right of
way or other NS property, the City
shall be required to consult with NS
and to obtain NS’ concurrence with
respect to the design, schedule for
construction and/or installation, and,
to the extent permitted by law, the
identity of individuals or entities performing
the
construction
and/or

828

June 3, 1998
installation. NS agrees not to unreasonably withhold such concurrence.
The City understands that all noise
mitigation structures or landscaping
constructed and/or installed on NS’
right of way and/or property must
be in compliance with any applicable federal law or regulations governing railroads, including but not
limited to the regulations of the Federal Railroad Administration, and
must conform with any applicable
engineering and other standards of
NS. NS shall grant the City such easements or licenses as may be necessary for construction and/or installation of such noise mitigation structures and landscaping.
E. Ownership and Maintenance of
Noise
Mitigation
Structures
and
Landscaping.
1. Any noise mitigation structures
constructed or installed on NS right
of way or NS property by the City
shall become the property of NS,
subject to the following agreements
regarding
maintenance
of
such
noise mitigation structures. NS shall
be solely responsible for maintaining the structural integrity of such
noise mitigation structures in accordance with applicable law and regulations, including all necessary
preventive
maintenance,
ongoing
maintenance and repairs; provided,
however, that the City shall bear
responsibility for keeping the walls
free from graffiti or other visual
defacement of such structures.
2. Any landscaping constructed or
installed on NS right of way or NS
property by the City shall be owned
by the City, and the City shall have
sole responsibility for the maintenance of such landscaping. NS shall
grant the City such rights of access
as may be necessary for the City to
perform such maintenance of the
landscaping.
F. Maintenance Endowment Fund.
As stated in subsection B of this section, CIF funds may be used for,
among other things, a Maintenance
Endowment
Fund.
Such
Maintenance Endowment Fund would be
used for maintenance of landscaping constructed or installed by the
City pursuant to subsections D and
E of this Section and for other maintenance projects related to or associated with impacts from the rail
lines and facilities to be operated by
NS post-Transaction which impacts
are not ordinarily the responsibility
of the railroad under applicable
laws and regulations. The parties
agree that prior to the expiration of
a period of five years from the date
on which the STB’s approval of the
Transaction has become effective,
NS and the City will engage in discussions regarding the question of
whether the Maintenance Endowment Fund should be continued
beyond the five-year period of the
CIF and, if so, for what period of
time and with what level of additional NS commitment of funds. It is
understood that NS’ agreement to
participate
in
such
discussions
regarding the Maintenance Endowment Fund does not commit NS to
entering into an agreement with the
City at that time regarding continuation of the Maintenance Endowment Fund. It is also understood
that the establishment of the Maintenance Endowment Fund does not
alter NS’ maintenance obligations
under applicable laws, regulations
or agreements, except as otherwise
provided in this Agreement.
G. Liability. In providing funds to
the CIF, NS does not in any way
acknowledge that the mitigation

June 3, 1998
projects to be implemented through
the CIF are required as a matter of
law. Nor does NS acknowledge or
warrant that the projects to be
implemented through the CIF will
necessarily achieve any mitigation
or any particular level or degree of
mitigation of the adverse impacts
they are intended to remedy. To the
extent permitted by law, Cleveland
agrees to bear full legal responsibility for any and all damages,
claims or injury arising out of the
administration of the CIF by the
City, the selection, construction and
installation of projects undertaken
with CIF funds by the City, the
maintenance of any landscaping
constructed or installed by the City
pursuant to subsections D and E of
this section, and the maintenance of
other projects undertaken with CIF
funds by the City where such other
projects are not constructed on NS
property. NS agrees to indemnify
and hold harmless the City against
any and all damages, claims or
injury arising out of the maintenance of noise mitigation structures
by NS pursuant to subsection E of
this
section.
Further,
Cleveland
agrees to include in any contract
related to the CIF for projects
undertaken with CIF funds which
requires the contractor to enter onto
any property owned by NS a requirement that the contractor indemnify
and hold harmless NS against any
claims related to the construction,
installation or maintenance of such
projects.
IV. Modification of Commitments
in the Event of Operating Changes.
Given the fluctuating nature of rail
freight traffic over time, and the
possibility that a change in circumstances could have a significant
effect on the assumptions and projections of the NS Operating Plan,
the parties recognize that deviations
from the projected average train frequencies set forth in NS’ Operating
Plan as revised by Table 2 hereto
may be necessary. To preserve NS’
operating flexibility while affording
a mechanism for addressing certain
future impacts of any substantial
increases in NS train traffic over the
projections contained in Table 2, the
parties agree as follows:
A. Nickel Plate Line Noise Mitigation. Except as provided hereinafter, if during the eight-year period beginning on the date on which
construction of the Cloggsville Connection has been fully completed,
there is any period of twelve consecutive months in which the average daily number of trains on the
Nickel Plate line between Cloggsville and Vermilion equals or
exceeds 26 trains per day on an
annualized basis, NS shall contribute $2,600,000 in additional funds
to the CIF for noise mitigation projects along this rail segment. Such
payment shall be made within 90
days after the end of such twelvemonth period. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to train
movements prior to the date on
which construction of the Cloggsville Connection has been fully
completed, and none of the twelvemonth periods of traffic increases
referred to in this subsection shall
include any period prior to such
Cloggsville Connection project completion date.
B. W. 117th Street Grade Crossing
Mitigation. If during the five-year
period beginning on the date on
which construction of the Cloggsville Connection has been fully

The City Record
completed, there is any period of
twelve consecutive months in which
the average daily number of trains
on the Nickel Plate line between
Cloggsville and Vermilion equals or
exceeds 19 trains per day on an
annualized basis, NS shall work
cooperatively
with
Cleveland
in
seeking the support of and funding
from the applicable state authorities
for a grade separation project for
the W. 117th Street grade crossing,
and NS shall contribute up to 10 percent of the cost of funding such project. NS shall pay its portion of the
cost of such project in accordance
with such schedule as may be established by the appropriate government agency or agencies with jurisdiction over the project.
C. Aetna and Bessemer Streets
Grade Crossing Mitigation. If during
the five-year period beginning on
the date on which construction of
the Vermilion double connection has
been fully completed, there is any
period of twelve consecutive months
in which the average daily number
of trains on the existing Conrail line
to be operated by NS post-Transaction between White, OH and Cleveland (CP-181) equals or exceeds 45
trains per day on an annualized
basis, NS shall: (1) work cooperatively with Cleveland in seeking the
support of and funding from the
applicable
state
authorities
for
grade separation projects for the
Aetna Street and Bessemer Street
grade crossings, and NS shall contribute up to 10 percent of the cost
of funding such project and NS shall
pay its portion of the cost of such
project in accordance with such
schedule as may be established by
the appropriate government agency
or agencies with jurisdiction over
the project; and (2) in the event that
it is not advisable or possible to construct a grade separation at Aetna
Street and Bessemer Street, or at
either of them, NS will cooperate
with the City on developing an
alternative capital improvement or
improvements, to be negotiated by
NS
and
the
City,
designed
to
improve access to emergency and
other public safety responders for
the neighborhoods surrounding such
grade crossing(s), with NS’ funding
commitment
for
such
capital
improvement(s) to be up to 10 percent of the cost of a grade separation at such grade crossing(s) but
not to exceed the total cost of such
capital improvement(s).
D. Mitigation for Capacity Increases. Except as provided hereinafter,
if during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which the STB’s
approval of the Transaction has
become effective, NS decides to
increase capacity through the construction of an additional main rail
line in Cleveland or of a rail siding
in excess of three miles in length in
Cleveland, NS agrees to provide
prior notice of such project(s) to the
City and to enter into good faith discussions with the City regarding the
question of whether there are any
significant environmental impacts
resulting from such project(s) and
regarding the possible mitigation of
any such impacts. As used herein,
the terms “construction of an additional main rail line” and “construction . . . of a rail siding in excess
of three miles in length” do not
include the construction of industrial tracks or spurs, nor do they
include
other
rehabilitation,
improvement or upgrading of any
existing track or the signals or
structures appurtenant thereto, nor

829

7
do they include the addition of any
main line track by or on behalf of
any other railroad on the right of
way of NS unless NS has the ability to use such main line track. It is
understood that NS’ agreement to
participate in good faith discussions
regarding
the
environmental
impacts of and possible mitigation
of such impacts of those projects
contemplated by this subsection of
the Agreement, does not constitute
an acknowledgement that such projects will have significant environmental impacts or commit NS to
entering into an agreement with the
City at that time regarding mitigation of such impacts. It is further
agreed and understood that the provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to the capacity increases to be
constructed as part of the Cloggsville Connection project.
E. NS Reports to Cleveland.
1. In furtherance of this Section
IV, NS agrees to provide the City on
a monthly basis with an accurate
written report on the average daily
number of freight trains that operated over each NS line in the City.
Each such report shall be provided
to the City by NS within 30 days of
the end of the applicable month, and
shall be contemporaneously submitted by NS to the STB. NS shall provide such monthly reports for a period of ten years from the date on
which the STB’s approval of the
Transaction has become effective.
2. In furtherance of this Section
IV, NS also agrees to notify the City
in writing of the date on which construction of the Vermilion double
connection has been fully completed
and the date on which construction
of the remainder of the Cloggsville
Connection project has been fully
completed, with each such written
notification to be provided within 15
days of each such completion date.
3. In furtherance of this Section
IV, NS also agrees to provide timely advance written notification to
the City of any planned capacity
increases to which the terms of subsection D hereof would apply.
V. Agreements Regarding Berea
Interlocking and Other Train Frequency Issues.
The City desires to reduce the frequency of train operations through
residential neighborhoods and to
minimize the adverse environmental
impacts of the Transaction on the
City of Cleveland and the surrounding communities, including but not
limited to the City of Berea. NS
believes that the integrity of its
Operating Plan for train operations
in and around Cleveland would be
compromised if too many trains had
to be crossed at the Berea interlocking between the Lakefront line to be
operated by NS post-Transaction and
the Short line to be operated by CSX
post-Transaction. NS has determined
after extensive study that a maximum of 15 trains per day can be
crossed at the Berea interlocking
without causing undue congestion or
unduly disrupting NS operations; and
the City acknowledges and accepts
the validity of this determination by
NS. NS agrees that as many as 15
CSX trains can and will be accommodated to operate via trackage
rights on the Lakefront line to be
operated by NS post-Transaction for
as long as NS controls operations on
said Lakefront line.
VI. Community/Railroad Committee. The parties hereby acknowledge their intent to continue the

8
working relationship that has developed between them and to work
together to strengthen that relationship over time as long as NS conducts operations in the City. NS and
the City agree to jointly establish a
Community/Railroad
Committee
(the
“Committee”)
comprised
of
twelve (12) persons: Three members
appointed by NS, three members
appointed by the Mayor, three members appointed by the City Council
President, and three members of the
community appointed by the Mayor.
The purpose of the Committee shall
be to provide a forum for ongoing
discussion and dialogue between NS
and the City regarding issues of
mutual
concern.
The
Committee
shall meet quarterly, beginning in
the first quarter after the effective
date of the STB’s approval of the
Conrail Application, and continuing
thereafter according to a schedule
established by the Committee itself.
Issues to be discussed by the Committee may include, but are not limited to, matters discussed in this
Section VI, as well as consideration
of citizen complaints relating to NS’
operations, potential joint economic
and job training initiatives, and
general monitoring of the mutual
obligations set forth in this Agreement. The Committee will prioritize
these issues, and will develop for
each issue an appropriate process
and time schedule. It is understood
that with respect to each of the
issues of concern identified in this
Section VI, the parties’ agreement to
discuss the issue at the Committee
does not commit either NS or the
City to enter into any agreements
regarding the issue following such
discussions, but the City and NS
agree to make efforts to resolve
issues brought to the Committee.
A. Asset Management. In consideration of concerns expressed by the
City
regarding
ongoing
maintenance, condition and appearance of
existing NS railroad facilities in
Cleveland and of railroad facilities
to be operated by NS in Cleveland
post-Transaction, including railroad
bridges, rights of way and rail
yards, NS agrees that within twelve
months of the date on which the
STB’s approval of the Transaction
shall have become effective, NS and
the City shall conduct joint inspections of such facilities and NS shall,
upon completion of such twelve
month period, submit to the City an
asset management plan for its rail
facilities in Cleveland. The scope
and content of such asset management plan shall be determined by
discussions between NS and the City
at the Committee. NS also agrees
that within 180 days after the date
on which the STB’s approval of the
Transaction
shall
have
become
effective, NS will provide the City
with an inventory of all NS bridges,
rights of way, rail yards and railroad operating properties located in
Cleveland. NS agrees to maintain
the
structural
integrity
of
its
bridges in Cleveland and to maintain its rail facilities in Cleveland
in accordance with all applicable
laws,
regulations
and
existing
agreements to which NS is a party
or for which NS is or will be legally responsible. NS agrees to complete any unfinished components of
the program of railroad bridge
painting/repair agreed to by Conrail
and the City in 1993 with respect to
those Conrail bridges on the lines to
be operated by NS post-Transaction.
The parties agree that they will
attempt to resolve any disputes or

The City Record
issues with regard to asset management through discussions at the
Committee.
B. Surplus Properties. NS agrees to
provide the City with an inventory
of all surplus real properties in
Cleveland owned or controlled by NS
post-Transaction. Such an inventory
shall be provided within 90 days of
the
date
on
which
the
STB’s
approval of the Transaction shall
have become effective. NS agrees to
discuss with the City’s Economic
Development Director and the Committee possible dispositions of such
surplus real property, including but
not limited to possible dispositions
that would result in the use of such
property for City-supported economic or community development. For
purposes of this Agreement, the
term “surplus real properties” means
those properties located in the City
that, as of the effective date of the
Transaction, are owned or controlled
by NS and are either not then in use
by NS in connection with its rail
operations or are not believed by NS
to have the potential to be used in
the future in connection with its rail
operations.
C. Billboards. NS will provide the
City with an inventory of all billboard leases for billboards on NS’
post-Transaction
rights
of
way,
bridges and other property in Cleveland, within 90 days of the date on
which the STB’s decision approving
the Transaction shall have become
effective. Such inventory shall indicate, to the extent that the information is available to NS, the locations of the billboards covered by
the leases and the terms of such
leases. Where such information is
not available to NS, NS shall provide the City with pertinent information about the lease or prior parties in interest to the lease that is
reasonably available to NS. NS
agrees not to enter into any lease
that would have the effect of
adding a billboard to a location
where there is no billboard or
increasing the number of billboards
at a location where there is already
one or more billboards, as of the
effective date of the Transaction.
NS further agrees to take the following actions to eliminate the
advertising of tobacco and alcohol
products on the billboards on its
property in Cleveland: (1) If a current billboard lease permits NS to
do so, NS will instruct the lessee
that the billboard cannot be used
for such advertisements; (2) when
each current billboard lease term
expires, NS will incorporate a prohibition on tobacco and alcohol
advertisements into the terms of
any renewal or replacement lease;
and (3) if any billboard lease shall
not have expired by the end of five
years from the date on which the
STB’s
decision
approving
the
Transaction
shall
have
become
effective, NS shall otherwise take
all legal and practicable steps to
eliminate
tobacco
and
alcohol
advertisements from any billboard
covered by such lease. NS also
agrees to ongoing discussions with
the City at the Committee regarding the City’s desire to eliminate
all billboards from railroad property.
D. Capacity Increases. If during
the ten-year period beginning ten
years after the date on which the
STB’s approval of the Transaction
has become effective, NS decides to
increase capacity through the construction in Cleveland of an additional main rail line or of a rail sid-

830

June 3, 1998
ing in excess of three miles in
length (as such terms are defined
in Section IV. D. hereof), NS will
provide
timely
written
advance
notice to the Community/Railroad
Committee, and NS agrees to enter
into good faith discussions with the
Committee regarding the question
of whether there are any significant environmental impacts resulting
from
such
project(s)
and
regarding the possible mitigation
of any such impacts. Prior to the
expiration of the ten-year period
beginning ten years after the date
on which the STB’s approval of the
Transaction has become effective,
NS agrees to discuss with the Committee the question of whether
there should be any continuation of
NS’ commitment to discuss such
capacity increases with the Committee.
E. Lakefront Track Realignment.
NS agrees to discuss with the City
at the Committee the issue of potentially realigning railroad tracks
along a portion of the Lakefront so
as to consolidate NS and CSX tracks
into a single rail corridor there.
F. Mill Creek Waterfall. NS agrees
to discuss with the City at the Committee questions with respect to proposals to preserve and enhance the
Mill Creek Waterfall and to better
incorporate the Mill Creek Waterfall
into the Cleveland Metroparks.
G. Business Development. The par ties agree to enter into discussions
with the City’s Economic Development Director and the Committee
with the goal of developing an intermodal
business
development
alliance between NS and Cleveland.
The parties may also discuss business development along the NS
rights of way.
H. Old River Channel. The parties
agree to discuss at the Committee
proposals for development of the Old
River Channel and the pedestrian
tunnels on the Lakefront line.
I. [Intentionally omitted.]
J. Permitting Generally. The City
agrees to discuss with NS at the
Committee any issues, concerns or
problems that NS is or may experience in obtaining permits or other
types of approvals from City or
other local governmental organizations for any of NS’ business operations and activities in Cleveland for
which such permits or approvals are
required.
K. Other Topics. Other topics of
discussion at the Committee may
include, but are not limited to, the
following: the I-480/I-71 Junction
and Rockport Yard improvements;
the Cloggsville construction and
improvements; redevelopment of the
southeast quadrant of East 93rd and
Quincy; issues relating to the Flats
Industrial
Railroad;
the
East
9th/Ontario Intermodal Yard; public
transit; and issues relating to hazmat.
VII. Other Understandings and
Undertakings.
A. NS acknowledges that it is
bound by any system-wide mitigation measures mandated by the STB
for hazardous materials transport
and intends to apply NS’ own system-wide program for the safe transportation of hazardous materials (as
further described in Attachment A
hereto) to the lines and facilities it
will
operate
in
Cleveland
postTransaction. In addition to the program described in Attachment A, NS
agrees to provide the City with four
OREIS (Operation Respond) software packages, to install such soft-

June 3, 1998
ware for the City and to train the
City’s personnel in the use of such
software; to provide, upon request,
periodic training in railroad/hazmat
issues, including classroom, tabletop
and full-scale drills; to provide the
City with annual reports of the number of car loads of hazardous materials that have moved through the
City (including a breakdown by
four (4) digit STCC code of the
types of materials transported); and
to coordinate with the City’s personnel or authorized agents the latter’s periodic access to NS yards,
lines and facilities for the purpose
of hazardous materials incident preparedness
and
planning.
It
is
expressly understood that nothing
in this Agreement would absolve NS
of its legal, regulatory or business
responsibilities associated with hazmat transportation or incidents in
Cleveland.
B. With respect to the Cloggsville
Connection
projects,
Cleveland
agrees to cooperate with NS, if such
cooperation is requested, in obtaining any applicable City or local governmental permits or approvals for
the projects, and agrees to use its
good offices to assist in resolving
any issues that may arise with
respect to these projects between NS
and any utility companies or other
interested third parties.
C. Cleveland agrees that through
NS’ consultations with the officials
and elected representatives of the
City of Cleveland, which consultations have culminated in this Agreement, NS has complied with the
directives in the DEIS regarding
consultations with the City of Cleveland with respect to potentially significant impacts resulting from the
Transaction.
D. The City agrees not to seek at
the STB, in any court, or in any
other forum, any conditions or mitigation with respect to NS in connection with the STB’s approval of
the Conrail Application that would
be contrary to or otherwise inconsistent with this Agreement, the
terms hereof or the acknowledgements made herein. NS agrees not
to seek at the STB, in any court, or
in any other forum, any conditions
or mitigation in connection with
the STB’s approval of the Conrail
Application that would be contrary
to or otherwise inconsistent with
this Agreement, the terms hereof or
the acknowledgements made herein.
E. NS and the City agree that neither of them will enter into any
agreement with any other individual or entity, seek any decision or
order of the STB or of any court, or
take any other actions that would
be contrary to or would otherwise
be inconsistent with this Agreement, the terms
hereof or the
acknowledgements
made
herein;
provided, however, that nothing in
this subsection E shall prevent the
City from protecting its rights or
pursuing
all
available
remedies
with respect to CSX in connection
with the Conrail Application as
long as the City does not seek the
imposition of a remedy that is contrary to or otherwise inconsistent
with this Agreement, the terms
hereof, or the acknowledgements
made herein.
F.
Notwithstanding
any
other
terms of this Agreement, this Agreement shall not constrain the City

The City Record
from pursuing efforts to obtain
reductions in the numbers of trains
projected to be operated by CSX
post-Transaction on the Short line,
through
negotiations
with
CSX
and/or requests for conditions at the
STB. Notwithstanding any other
terms
of
this
Agreement,
this
Agreement shall not constrain the
City from pursuing efforts to obtain
other mitigation with respect to
CSX, through negotiations with CSX
and/or requests for conditions at the
STB, provided that such mitigation
does not relate to NS.
G. The parties agree that as long
as the City shall have complied with
the terms of this Agreement, including particularly the terms of subsections D and E of this Section, the
imposition by the STB of conditions
on the Transaction that would have
the effect of requiring more than 15
trains per day to cross at the Berea
interlocking shall not itself void
this Agreement pursuant to Section
X. A. hereof.
H. The parties acknowledge and
agree that NS’ commitment to build
the Cloggsville Connection and NS’
commitment
to
accommodate
as
many as 15 CSX trains per day on
the Lakefront line to be operated
by NS post-Transaction are unique
commitments that are essential to
the purpose of this Agreement.
Accordingly, in the event that NS
notifies the City or the City otherwise determines that NS has not or
cannot fulfill either of these commitments (or both of them), the
parties agree that: (a) if such notification or determination occurs
during the term of any STB oversight proceeding with respect to the
Transaction, the City shall have the
right to petition the STB for an
order compelling specific performance by NS of such commitment(s); and (b) if such notification or determination occurs after
the term of any STB oversight proceeding with respect to the Transaction, NS shall consent to the
reopening of the Conrail Application by the STB for the purpose of
the STB considering a petition by
the City for an order compelling
specific performance by NS of such
commitment(s); and (c) in either
event, if the STB determines that
specific performance of such commitment(s) shall not be ordered,
the parties agree that the STB’s
approval of the Conrail Application
shall be reopened for the limited
purpose of reconsideration of the
adverse environmental impacts of
the Transaction upon the City and
of the conditions imposed by the
STB for mitigation of such adverse
environmental impacts. The parties’
agreement to this subsection H
does not constitute a waiver by
either party of any other remedies
that may be available to it with
respect to the rights and obligations set forth in this Agreement.
VIII. Submission to City Council.
Upon execution of this Agreement,
the City’s Mayor and appropriate
Director(s) shall immediately take
all actions necessary to place this
Agreement before the Council of the
City of Cleveland for its earliest
consideration. The Mayor and such
Director(s) shall recommend to the
City Council that it approve this
Agreement, and shall take all other
necessary and appropriate actions to
ensure the most expeditious consid-

831

9
eration of the
City Council.

Agreement

by

the

IX. STB Notification. Promptly
upon execution of this Agreement
and its approval by the City Council:
A. NS and Cleveland will notify
the STB in writing that they have
entered into this Agreement and
will advise the STB of the terms of
this Agreement. NS and Cleveland
will further request at that time
that the STB adopt the terms of this
Agreement as a condition of the
STB’s approval of the Conrail Application; and
B. The City will advise the STB
in writing that, in consideration of
this Agreement, it is withdrawing
its opposition to, and its request for
conditions upon, so much of the Conrail Application as relates to NS’
acquisition of control of Conrail and
NS’ proposed post-Transaction rail
operations.
X. Conditions. The commitments
set forth above are conditioned on:
A. The STB’s approval of the Conrail Application, provided that such
approval (1) adopts the terms of
this Agreement as a condition of
such approval, and (2) includes the
STB’s approval of NS’ Operating
Plan, as modified by the NS Mitigation Proposal and the commitments
made herein; and
B. The acceptance by NS of any
other conditions imposed by the STB
upon the approval of the Conrail
Application; and
C. The approval of the Conrail
Application by the STB having
become effective.
IN
WITNESS
WHEREOF,
the
undersigned have duly executed this
Agreement, all as of the day and
year first above written.
[SIGNATURE BLOCK FOR
CITY OF CLEVELAND]
[SIGNATURE BLOCK FOR
NORFOLK SOUTHERN
C O R P O R ATION AND
NORFOLK SOUTHERN
R A I L W A Y COMPANY]
TABLES AND ATTACHMENT
Table 1

NS Original
Operating Plan

Table 2

NS Revised
Cloggsville Connection
Mitigation Proposal

Attachment A Norfolk
Southern’s
Commitment to Safe
Transportation
of
Hazardous Materials
A copy of the tables and attachment
is contained in File No. 978-98-A.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Public Safety, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on City Planning Commission, Finance.

10
Ord. No. 979-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $55,000,000 to refund certain of the City’s outstanding Various
Purpose
General
Obligation
Bonds issued in the years 1988, 1989,
1990, 1991, 1992 and 1994 and to pay
expenses incurred in the issuance of
those Bonds and that refunding, and
authorizing the execution and delivery of an escrow agreement and
other agreements with respect to the
Bonds and the refunding.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 347-88, 348-88, 349-88, 350-88, 35188 and 352-88, all passed on March
14, 1988, Various Purpose General
Obligation Bonds, Series 1988, in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$20,500,000, dated as of May 1, 1988
(the “1988 Various Purpose Bonds”),
were issued to pay costs of the following improvements: (i) $6,970,000
principal amount for the purpose of
improving the municipal street system and related facilities, improving
certain streets and expressways,
between
certain
termini,
and
improving certain roadways, driveways,
and
pedestrian
walkways
located within or through City facilities by widening, grading, draining,
curbing and paving such streets,
expressways, roadways, driveways,
and pedestrian walkways, by resetting and constructing catch basins
and storm drainage facilities in and
under such streets, expressways,
roadways, driveways and pedestrian
walkways, by constructing, reconstructing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges, by installing gutters,
sidewalks and related pedestrian
improvements, by acquiring any
interests in real estate necessary for
such purposes, and by installing
signs, signals, markings and other
devices for traffic control purposes,
together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 347-88) (“Project 1”); (ii)
$4,675,000 principal amount for the
purpose
of
improving
municipal
recreational facilities by constructing,
rehabilitating,
furnishing,
equipping and otherwise improving,
and acquiring any necessary interests in real estate for, pools, playgrounds
and
recreation
centers,
together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 348-88) (“Project 2”); (iii)
$5,360,000 principal amount for the
purpose of constructing and rehabilitating police and fire stations,
and renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interests in real estate for,
facilities related to the protection of
the safety and property of the public, together with all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto
(Ordinance No. 349-88) (“Project 3”);
(iv) $525,000 for the purpose of renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing,
equipping and otherwise improving
facilities for administrative offices
of the municipality, including City
Hall, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 350-88) (“Project 4”); (v) $2,625,000 principal
amount for the purpose of constructing, renovating, rehabilitating,
furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interests in real estate for,
facilities for the maintenance, repair
and storage of vehicles and equipment of various City divisions, the

The City Record
maintenance of City streets, bridges,
docks, and properties, and the provision of waste collection services,
and administrative functions related
thereto, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 351- 88)
(“Project 5”); and (vi) $345,000 principal amount for the purpose of renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing,
equipping and otherwise improving
facilities related to the protection of
the health of the public, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 352-88) (“Project 6”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 476-89, 477-89, 478-89 and 479-89,
all passed on May 1, 1989, Various
Purpose General Obligation Bonds,
Series 1989, in the aggregate principal amount of $59,530,000, dated as
of August 16, 1989 (the portions of
this issue, and only those portions,
listed in this paragraph are hereinafter referred to as the “1989 Various Purpose Bonds”), were issued
to
pay
costs
of
the
following
improvements: (i) $5,330,000 principal amount for the purpose of providing funds to pay the costs of
improving
municipal
recreational
facilities by constructing, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and
otherwise improving, and acquiring
any necessary interests in real
estate for, pools, parks, playgrounds,
recreation centers, and recreation
facilities, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 476-89) (“Project 7”); (ii) $17,000,000 principal
amount for the purpose of providing
funds to pay the costs of constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interests in real estate for,
facilities for the protection of the
safety and property of the public,
the maintenance, repair and storage
of vehicles and equipment of various City departments, the maintenance of City streets, bridges, docks,
and properties, the maintenance and
installation
of
traffic
control
devices, and the provision of waste
collection services, and administrative
functions
related
thereto,
together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 477-89) (“Project 8”); (iii)
$515,000 principal amount for the
purpose of providing funds to pay
the costs of constructing, renovating,
rehabilitating,
reinforcing,
dredging, reclaiming, and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interests in real estate for,
pilings, docks, wharfs, piers, bulkheads, breakwalls, channels and bottom surfaces in and along the
rivers, lakes, and lagoons located
within or bounding the City of
Cleveland or its facilities, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 478-89) (“Project 9”); and (iv)
$5,230,000 principal amount for the
purpose of providing funds to pay
the costs of improving the municipal street system and related facilities, improving certain streets and
expressways, between certain termini, and improving certain roadways,
driveways, and pedestrian walkways located within or through City
facilities
by
widening,
grading,
draining, curbing and paving such
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways,
by resetting and constructing catch
basins and storm drainage facilities
in and under such streets, expressways,
roadways,
driveways
and

832

June 3, 1998
pedestrian walkways, by constructing, reconstructing, renovating and
rehabilitating bridges, by installing
gutters,
sidewalks
and
related
pedestrian improvements, by acquiring any interest in real estate necessary for such purposes and by
installing signs, signals, markings
and other devices for traffic control
purposes, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 479-89) (“Project 10”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 1786-A-90, 1787-A-90, 1788-A-90,
1789-A-90 and 1790-A-90, all passed on
August 23, 1990, Various Purpose
General Obligation Bonds, Series
1990, in the aggregate principal
amount of $26,645,000, dated as of
October 1, 1990 (the “1990 Various
Purpose Bonds”), were issued to pay
costs of the following improvements:
(i) $11,330,000 principal amount for
the purpose of improving the municipal recreational system, including
certain recreation centers, pools,
parks, playgrounds, playfields and
other recreation facilities by the
construction,
renovation,
remodeling, repair, furnishing, equipping
and rehabilitation thereof, and by
the acquisition of interests in real
estate necessary for such purposes,
together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 1786-A-90) (“Project 11”);
(ii) $5,660,000 principal amount for
the purpose of improving the municipal street system and related facilities, including certain streets and
roadways between certain termini
by the rehabilitation and resurfacing thereof, certain roadways, driveways and walkways located within or through City facilities by the
rehabilitation
and/or
resurfacing
thereof, certain signals pertaining
to traffic control by the technological improvement thereof, and certain bridges by the reconstruction,
renovation, repair and rehabilitation
thereof, and by the acquisition of
interests in real estate necessary for
such purpose, together with all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 1787A-90) (“Project 12”); (iii) $1,030,000
principal amount for the purpose of
certain
improvements
related
to
urban redevelopment, including land
acquisition and consolidation, site
clearance and preparation, the construction of water and sewer lines,
catch basins and storm drainage
facilities, and the construction and
improvement of certain streets, roadways,
driveways
and
pedestrian
walkways by the widening, grading,
draining, curbing and paving thereof, together with all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto
(Ordinance No. 1788-A-90) (“Project
13”); (iv) $6,745,000 principal amount
for the purpose of improving certain
public
service
facilities,
which
address health, safety, service and
welfare concerns, by the construction, renovation, remodeling, repair,
furnishing, equipping and rehabilitation thereof, and by the acquisition of interests in real estate necessary for such purpose, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 1789-A-90) (“Project 14”); and (v)
$1,880,000 principal amount for the
purpose of improving the Cleveland
Convention Center by the renovation, remodeling, repair, furnishing,
equipping and rehabilitation thereof, together with all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto
(Ordinance No. 1790-A-90) (“Project
15”); and

June 3, 1998
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 884-91, 885-91, 886-91, 887-91, 88891, 889-91, all passed on April 22,
1991, Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1991A and B, in
the aggregate principal amount of
$52,155,000, dated as of May 1, 1991
(the portions of this issue, and only
those portions, listed in this paragraph are hereinafter referred to as
the
“1991A-B
Various
Purpose
Bonds”), were issued for the purpose
of providing funds to pay costs of
the following: (i) $9,815,000 principal amount for constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing,
equipping and otherwise improving,
safety facilities, vehicle and equipment maintenance facilities for various City Departments, street maintenance facilities, public convention
facilities, waste collection facilities,
and
facilities
for
administrative
functions related thereto, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 884-91) (“Project No. 16”); (ii)
$1,020,000 principal amount for certain improvements related to residential development and redevelopment, including land acquisition and
consolidation, site clearance and
preparation,
the
construction
of
water and sewer lines, catch basins
and storm drainage facilities, the
construction and improvement of
certain streets, roadways, driveways
and pedestrian walkways by the
widening, grading, draining, curbing and paving thereof, the installation of street lighting and traffic
signs and signalization, and the
installation of utility lines and
improvements,
together
with
all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 88791) (“Project No. 17”); (iii) $9,865,000
principal amount for improving the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including certain streets
and expressways, between certain
termini, and improving certain roadways,
driveways
and
pedestrian
walkways located within or through
City facilities by widening, grading,
draining, curbing and paving such
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways,
by resetting and constructing catch
basins and storm drainage facilities
in and under said streets, expressways,
roadways,
driveways
and
pedestrian walkways, by relocating
City-owned utility lines in connection
therewith,
by
constructing,
reconstructing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges, by installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian improvements, by acquiring
any interests in real estate necessary for such purposes, and by
installing signs, signals, markings
and other devices for traffic control
purposes, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 885-91) (“Project No. 18”); (iv) $3,280,000 principal amount for improving municipal
recreational facilities by constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interest in real estate for,
pools, parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and recreation facilities, together with all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto
(Ordinance No. 888-91) (“Project No.
19”); and (v) $1,020,000 principal
amount for improving municipal
cemetery facilities by constructing,
renovating, and rehabilitating such
facilities including clearing, grading and excavating land, installing
drainage and sewer lines, installing

The City Record
access roadways including any necessary
bridges
and
culverts,
installing utility lines, laying out
and numbering burial plots, and
planting and landscaping, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 886- 91) (“Project No. 20”); and
(vi) $18,200,000 principal amount for
refunding notes which were issued
in anticipation of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to pay the
costs of renovating, remodeling, and
otherwise improving the Cleveland
Convention Center by the acquisition or construction of improvements
thereto and making related site
improvements,
together
with
all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 88991) (“Project No. 21”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2611-91, passed on November 11,
1991,
General
Obligation
Bonds,
Series 1991C, in the aggregate principal amount of $12,500,000, dated as
of December 1, 1991 (the “1991C General Obligation Bonds”), were issued
for the purpose of providing funds
with which to pay or reimburse the
City for the payment of final judgments rendered against the City,
including
settlements
of
claims
approved by a court, and including
interest thereon to the approximate
date of issuance of the bonds, costs
and expenses assessed or taxed
against and defense costs of the
City, and other costs, including
financing costs, permitted by Chapter 133, Ohio Revised Code, to be
paid from the proceeds of such
bonds (“Project No. 22”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 726-92, 727-92, 728-92, 729-92 and
731-92, all passed on April 27, 1992,
Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 1992A, in the aggregate principal amount of $26,000,000,
dated as of June 1, 1992 (the “1992A
Various
Purpose
Bonds”),
were
issued for the purpose of providing
funds to pay costs of the following:
(i) $6,975,000 principal amount for
constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and otherwise improving, safety facilities,
vehicle and equipment maintenance
facilities for various City Departments, street maintenance facilities,
public convention facilities, waste
collection facilities, judicial facilities, greenhouse facilities, and facilities for administrative functions
related thereto, and together with
all appurtenances necessary and
incidental thereto, and to pay the
costs of acquiring any necessary
interests in real estate (Ordinance
No. 726-92) (“Project No. 23”); (ii)
$1,030,000 principal amount for certain improvements related to residential development and redevelopment, including land acquisition and
consolidation, site clearance and
preparation,
the
construction
of
water and sewer lines, catch basins
and storm drainage facilities, the
construction and improvement of
certain streets, roadways, driveways
and pedestrian walkways by the
widening, grading, draining, curbing and paving thereof, the installation of street lighting and traffic
signs and signalization, and the
installation of utility lines and
improvements,
together
with
all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 72792) (“Project No. 24”); (iii) $9,650,000
principal amount for improving the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including certain streets
and expressways, between certain
termini, and improving certain road-

833

11
ways,
driveways
and
pedestrian
walkways located within or through
City facilities by widening, grading,
draining, curbing and paving such
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways,
by resetting and constructing catch
basins and storm drainage facilities
in and under said streets, expressways,
roadways,
driveways
and
pedestrian walkways, by planting
trees and landscaping, by relocating
City-owned utility lines in connection
therewith,
by
constructing,
reconstructing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges, by installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian improvements, by acquiring
any interests in real estate necessary for such purposes, and by
installing signs, signals, markings
and other devices for traffic control
purposes, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 728-92) (“Project No. 25”); (iv) $6,845,000 principal amount for improving municipal
recreational facilities by constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interest in real estate for,
pools, parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and recreation facilities, together with all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto
(Ordinance No. 729-92) (“Project No.
26”); and (v) $1,500,000 principal
amount for improving municipal
cemetery facilities by constructing,
renovating, and rehabilitating such
facilities including clearing, grading and excavating land, installing
drainage and sewer lines, installing
access roadways including any necessary
bridges
and
culverts,
installing utility lines, laying out
and numbering burial plots, and
planting and landscaping, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto, and to pay
the costs of acquiring any necessary
interests in real estate (Ordinance
No. 731-92) (“Project No. 27”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 872-94, 873-94, 874-94 and 875-94,
all passed on May 23, 1994, Various
Purpose General Obligation Bonds,
Series 1994, in the aggregate principal amount of $41,790,000, dated as
of October 1, 1994 (the “1994 Various
Purpose Bonds”), were issued for
the purpose of providing funds to
pay costs of the following: (i)
$24,545,000
principal
amount
for
improving the municipal street system and related facilities, including
certain streets and expressways
between
certain
termini,
and
improving certain roadways, driveways
and
pedestrian
walkways
located within or through City facilities by widening, grading, draining,
curbing and paving such streets,
expressways, roadways, driveways
and pedestrian walkways, by resetting and constructing catch basins
and storm drainage facilities in and
under said streets, expressways,
roadways, driveways and pedestrian
walkways, by planting trees and
landscaping,
by
relocating
Cityowned utility lines in connection
therewith, by constructing, reconstructing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges, by installing gutters,
sidewalks and related pedestrian
improvements, by acquiring any
interests in real estate necessary for
such purposes, and by installing
signs, signals, markings and other
devices for traffic control purposes,
together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 872-94) (“Project No. 28”);

12
(ii) $6,325,000 principal amount for
improving
municipal
recreational
facilities by constructing, renovating,
rehabilitating,
furnishing,
equipping and otherwise improving,
and acquiring any necessary interest in real estate for, pools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation centers, and
recreation facilities, together with
all appurtenances necessary and
incidental thereto (Ordinance No.
873-94)
(“Project
No.
29”);
(iii)
$1,020,000 principal amount for certain improvements related to urban
renewal and residential development and redevelopment, including
land acquisition and consolidation,
site clearance and preparation, the
construction of water and sewer
lines,
catch
basins
and
storm
drainage facilities, the construction
and improvement of certain streets,
roadways, driveways and pedestrian
walkways by the widening, grading,
draining, curbing and paving thereof, the installation of street lighting
and traffic signs and signalization,
and the installation of utility lines
and improvements, together with all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto (Ordinance No. 87494) (“Project No. 30”); and (iv)
$9,900,000 principal amount for constructing, renovating, rehabilitating,
furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, safety facilities, vehicle
and equipment maintenance facilities for various City Departments,
street maintenance facilities, waste
collection facilities, parking facilities, West Side Market facilities,
City Hall, and facilities for administrative functions related to the
foregoing, and together with all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and to pay the costs
of acquiring any necessary interests
in real estate therefor (Ordinance
No. 875-94) (“Project No. 31”); and
Whereas, this Council finds and
determines that: (i) it is necessary
and in the best interest of the City
to refund (A) the 1988 Various Purpose Bonds that are stated to
mature on August 1, 2003 (serial
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of $1,020,000), (B) the 1989
Various Purpose Bonds that are stated to mature on July 1 in the years
2000 (serial bonds in the aggregate
principal amount of $4,135,000) and
2001 (serial bonds in the aggregate
principal amount of $4,165,000), (C)
the 1990 Various Purpose Bonds that
are stated to mature on October 1 in
the years 2002 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$1,390,000) and 2003 (serial bonds in
the aggregate principal amount of
$1,500,000), (D) the 1991A-B Various
Purpose Bonds that are stated to
mature on October 1 in the years
2001 (serial bonds in the aggregate
principal amounts of $1,130,000 and
$1,090,000), 2002 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amounts
of
$1,205,000 and $1,160,000), 2003 (serial bonds in the aggregate principal
amounts of $1,280,000 and $1,235,000),
2004 (serial bonds in the aggregate
principal amounts of $1,370,000 and
$1,320,000), and 2005 (serial bonds in
the aggregate principal amounts of
$1,470,000 and $1,415,000), (E) the
1991C General Obligation Bonds that
are stated to mature on October 1 in
the years 2000 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$535,000), 2001 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$575,000), 2002 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$610,000), and 2003 (serial bonds in
the aggregate principal amount of
$660,000), (F) the 1992A Various

The City Record
Purpose Bonds that are stated to
mature on July 1 in the years 2001
(serial bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $1,180,000), 2002
(serial bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $1,245,000), 2003
(serial bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $1,320,000), and 2004
(serial bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $1,400,000), and (G)
the 1994 Various Purpose Bonds that
are stated to mature on November 15
in the years 2001 (serial bonds in
the aggregate principal amount of
$1,615,000), 2002 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$1,720,000), 2003 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$1,820,000), 2006 (serial bonds in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$2,175,000), and 2007 (serial bonds in
the aggregate principal amount of
$2,310,000) (those outstanding bonds,
together with any other outstanding
unvoted general obligation bonds of
the City designated to be refunded
pursuant to Section 1 are collectively referred to as the “Refunded
Bonds”); and (ii) to issue the Bonds
described in Section 1 to provide
funds for that purpose, including the
payment of any expenses relating to
the
refunding
of
the
Refunded
Bonds or the issuance of the Bonds;
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or period of usefulness of
each of the Projects was, at the time
the original indebtedness for each
Project was incurred, at least five
years, and that the maximum maturity of that portion of the Bonds to
be allocated to each of the Projects
is December 31 of the years set forth
below for the respective Projects:
Year of Last
Maturity
2010
2009
2013
2011
2013
2013
2010
2012
2014
2010
2015
2008
2026
2014
2016
2015
2015
2008
2008
2001
2015
2016
2018
2017
2010
2015
2003
2012
2018
2024
2018

Project No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31

Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112- 83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the

834

June 3, 1998
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to refund the Refunded Bonds which
will enable the City to obtain debt
service savings which are urgently
needed for the benefit of the City,
and as a result, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public, peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary that Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
Fifty-Five
Million
Dollars
($55,000,000) be issued for the purpose of refunding the Refunded
Bonds that the Director of Finance
determines, based on the advice of
the City’s financial advisor, would
be advantageous to the City to
refund due to savings in bond service charges or the restructuring of
the currently scheduled bond service
charges or otherwise to better serve
the interests of the City, and for the
purpose of paying any expenses
relating to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds and the issuance of
the Bonds, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Revised
Code Section 133.15(B).
The aggregate principal amount
of Bonds to be issued shall not
exceed $55,000,000 and shall be in an
amount determined by the Director
of Finance to be the aggregate principal amount of Bonds that are
required to be issued, taking into
account
any
discount
from
the
aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds at which they are sold to the
Original Purchaser, in order to
effect the purpose for which the
Bonds are to be issued, including
the payment of any expenses relating to the refunding of the Refunded Bonds and the issuance of the
Bonds, which amount shall be set
forth in the certificate providing for
the final terms of the Bonds and the
sale of the Bonds and signed by the
Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Director of Finance
may determine in the Certificate of
Award that additional maturities or
different maturities of the series of
unvoted general obligation bonds of
the City identified in the preambles
of this Ordinance and issued for the
purpose of providing funds to pay
costs of Project Nos. 1 through 31
may be refunded and thereby constitute Refunded Bonds; provided
that in adding or changing such
maturities the Director of Finance
determines, based on advice from
the City’s financial advisor, that
refunding such maturities generates
present value debt service savings
to the City or otherwise is in the
best interests of the City, taking
into account all the factors that the
Director of Finance and the City’s
financial advisor deem relevant to
such determination.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Revised

June 3, 1998
Code Chapter 133, and other applicable provisions of the Revised Code,
the Charter of the City, the General
Bond Ordinance, and this Ordinance
in the principal amount and for the
purpose stated in Section 1. The
Bonds shall be designated “Refunding Bonds, Series 1998” or as otherwise determined by the Director of
Finance. The Bonds shall be issued
in one lot as fully registered Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof but in no
case as to a particular maturity date
exceeding
the
principal
amount
maturing on that date. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1998 or such other date
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award, but in no event later than
December 31, 1998. The Bonds shall
bear interest at the rate of six and
three-fourths percent (6-3/4%) per
year or at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed six and three-fourths percent
(6-3/4%) per year, and if the Bonds
bear interest at more than one rate
per year, then the weighted average
of such rates (taking into account
the principal amount and maturity
of each Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed six and
three-fourths percent (6-3/4%) per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 of each year or on the
first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning October 1, 1998, or on such
other Interest Payment Date specified in the Certificate of Award as
the first Interest Payment Date. The
Bonds shall bear interest from the
most recent date to which interest
has been paid or provided for or, if
no interest has been paid or provided for, from their date.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no earlier than January 1, 1999 and no later than
August 1, 2000, (iii) the final maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than the last maturity permitted by law for the Refunded Bonds,
and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable in annual
installments such that the total principal and interest payments on the
Bonds in any fiscal year in which
principal is payable, is not more
than three times the amount of
those payments for the Refunded
Bonds in any fiscal year in which
principal
was
payable
on
the
Refunded Bonds.
The Director of Finance also shall
determine, in the Certificate of
Award or otherwise, on or prior to
the date of delivery of the Bonds to
the Original Purchaser, that portion
of the aggregate principal amount
of the Bonds that is allocable to
each Project, and the principal
amount of Bonds allocated to each
Project that shall be payable annually at stated maturity or pursuant
to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements
(as
defined

The City Record
below) on each principal payment
date; provided, that (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds
allocable to a Project shall be determined by the Director of Finance on
a pro rata basis by reference to the
respective amount of funds that is
required for the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds that are allocable
to that Project, taking into account
any funds other than the proceeds
of the Bonds that are available and
appropriated for that purpose, (ii)
no portion of the aggregate principal amount of Bonds allocated to a
Project shall be payable later than
the maximum maturity for that portion of the Bonds as certified by the
Director of Finance, and (iii) a portion of the aggregate principal
amount of Bonds allocated to a Project shall be payable annually at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on each principal
payment date on which the Director
of Finance determines in the Certificate of Award or otherwise that
principal of Bonds allocated to that
Project shall be payable.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The
Director
of
Finance
shall
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award whether any of the Bonds
shall be issued as Term Bonds, any
dates (the “Mandatory Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include
amounts
sufficient
to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current

835

13
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the

14
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been

The City Record
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with

836

June 3, 1998
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, N.A., is appointed to
act as the authenticating agent,
bond registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”);
provided
that
the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, the Registrar Agreement among the City,
the Registrar and the Escrow Agent
(the “Agreement”) in substantially
the form as is now on file with the
Clerk of Council in File No. 979-98A. The Agreement is approved,
together
with
any
changes
or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an

June 3, 1998
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository

The City Record
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to to
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if, in
the reasonable opinion of the Director of Finance, an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase
Agreement
including:
the
principal amount of the Bonds, the
final purchase price (which shall be
not less than 97% of the principal

837

15
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), the interest
rate or rates, the amounts and years
in which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and the
portion of the principal amount of
the Bonds allocable to each Project.
If it is determined advisable by the
Director of Finance for the sale of
the Bonds, the Director of Finance
is authorized to sign agreements
with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal bond
insurance for the Bonds that are not
materially inconsistent with this
Ordinance. The Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized and
directed to take such actions as are
necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for
delivery of the Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, and
procedure, and conditions for the
delivery of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to cause
a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in the File No.
referenced in Section 3 of this Ordinance, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause

16
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute an agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders
and beneficial owners of the Bonds
in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The City’s performance of that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1998”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the

The City Record
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
Pursuant to the General Bond Ordinance and in accordance with Chapter 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
the proceeds of the Bonds (except
for (a) accrued interest thereon and
any premium and (b) the proceeds
of the Bonds to be applied to pay
costs of issuing the Bonds and
refunding the Refunded Bonds and
costs of any credit enhancement,
which amounts shall be specified in
the Certificate of Award) shall be
deposited in a special and separate
bank account with The Huntington
National Bank, Cleveland, Ohio and
held by that Bank as Escrow Agent,
and shall be expended and applied,
immediately upon receipt of such
proceeds, in the manner provided by
the General Bond Ordinance for the
payment of debt service charges on

838

June 3, 1998
the Refunded Bonds from and after
the date of issuance of the Bonds to
and including their respective maturity dates.
Pursuant to Section 133.34 of the
Revised Code and this Ordinance,
the proceeds so deposited and the
investment
income
thereon
are
pledged for that purpose. Accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
transferred to the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds. The proceeds
of the Bonds to be applied to pay
the cost of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited in a separate account
in the Bond Retirement Fund pending their application to the payment
of such costs.
The
Mayor
and
Director
of
Finance are authorized and directed to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, an
agreement
(the
“Escrow
Agreement”) between the City and the
Escrow Agent, providing for the
investment and holding in escrow of
the proceeds of the Bonds (except
for (a) accrued interest thereon and
any premium and (b) the proceeds
of the Bonds to be applied to pay
issuance costs and costs of any
credit enhancement) and for the
application of the moneys derived
from such investments, in accordance with the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance and as
otherwise directed by law. Notice of
the
advance
refunding
of
the
Refunded Bonds and any early
redemption of Refunded Bonds shall
be given in accordance with the
terms of the Refunded Bonds and as
further provided in the Escrow
Agreement. The Refunded Bonds
shall be retired at stated maturity
or redeemed in accordance with the
ordinance authorizing the respective bonds and the Escrow Agreement. The Mayor and Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement from money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose. The
Mayor and Director of Finance and
other
appropriate
City
officials
shall execute all documents and
take all other actions necessary or
appropriate on the part of the City
to effect the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds in accordance with
the General Bond Ordinance and
this Ordinance and as otherwise
directed by law, and to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed paid
and discharged.
If U.S. Treasury Securities —
State and Local Government Series
are to be purchased for the Escrow
Fund, the Escrow Agent is hereby
specifically authorized to file, on
behalf of the City, subscriptions for
the purchase and issuance of those
U.S. Treasury Securities - State and
Local Government Series.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General Bond Ordinance and, in addition
to the taxes and revenues specifically pledged pursuant to this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond

June 3, 1998
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Bonds are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit of the City are hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds in accordance with the laws
and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub- accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United States certified
by an independent public accounting firm of national reputation to
be of such maturities and interest
payment dates and to bear such
interest, without further investment
or reinvestment of either the principal amount thereof or the interest
earnings therefrom (likewise to be
held in trust and committed, except
as hereinafter provided), as will be
sufficient, together with moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on
the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be,
or if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by
the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing,
or redeemable at the option of the
holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed
by the Director of Finance. Any
income or interest earned by, or

The City Record
increment to, the investments held
under this Section shall, to the
extent determined from time to time
by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this
Section, be transferred at the time
of such determination as provided
in Section 17(a) of the General
Bond
Ordinance
for
unclaimed
funds held by a Paying Agent. In
the event of nonpresentment of any
Bond as described in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance, the
moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held and paid as provided in said Section 17(a) for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent.
Section 9. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be
deemed to alter or restrict such full
application of the General Bond
Ordinance, except for the exclusion
from
application
to
the
Bonds
authorized herein of the provisions
of the third paragraph of Section
13(a) and the third paragraph of
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance pursuant to Section 2 of this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 11. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal
Revenue
Code
of
1986,
as
amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will not
be treated as an item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, and (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Bonds to the governmental
purpose
of
the
borrowing,
(ii)
restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.

839

17
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Bonds is also
made with respect to all issues any
portion of the debt service on which
is paid from proceeds of the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Bonds
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, and the officers identified above are authorized to take
actions with respect to those issues
as they are authorized in this section
to take with respect to the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Bonds is hereby
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval, or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Bonds as the City is permitted or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for
in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code
or available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Bonds
or interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that
purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Bonds, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript of proceedings for the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Bonds.
Section 12. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 13. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds in order to make
them legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened,
been done and been performed in
regular and due form as required be
law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation,
either

18
statutory or constitutional, will have
been exceeded in the issuance of the
Bonds. It is further found and determined, and is hereby represented
and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days
or dispensing with such readings by
a two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 14. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 15. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 16. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 17. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing for the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds which will
enable the City to obtain debt service savings and for the usual daily
operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 980-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $4,340,000 for the purpose
of
providing
funds
to
improve
municipal
parks
and
recreation
facilities and to pay capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
Bonds; to authorize agreements with
respect to the Bonds; and to authorize the issuance of notes in anticipation of such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Four Million Three Hundred Forty Thousand
Dollars ($4,340,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112- 83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Four Million Three Hundred
Forty Thousand Dollars ($4,340,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities by constructing,
reconstructing,
rehabilitating,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging
and otherwise improving parks and
recreation centers and areas, pools,
playgrounds, playfields, and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement and facilities, and providing
necessary
water
systems,
drainage, lighting, signage, fixtures,
furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site improvements,
together with all preliminary associated research, planning and development and all necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases,
including the acquisition of any
required real estate and interests in

840

June 3, 1998
real estate, and to pay capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
Bonds, including all financing costs
within
the
meaning
of
Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law;
and to authorize the issuance of
notes in anticipation of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bonds,
Series
1998”. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1998, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1998, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year or
at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if all the Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed six
and three-fourths percent (6-3/4%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 of each year or on the
first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning October 1, 1998 or on such other
Interest Payment Date specified in
the Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on October 1 in twenty (20) substantially
equal annual installments, beginning October 1, 1999, or according to
the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date (hereinafter defined), (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than January 1, 1999 and
no later than August 1, 2000, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fis-

June 3, 1998
cal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by

The City Record
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of

841

19
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America with-

20
out deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so

The City Record
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
980-98-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person;
neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to
the contrary, but the registration
may be changed as provided in this
Section. All such payments shall be
valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the City’s liability upon
the Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or

842

June 3, 1998
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record
ownership
of
beneficial
interests in Bonds or the principal
and interest, and to effect transfers
of Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a

June 3, 1998
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if, in
the reasonable opinion of the Director of Finance, an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions of this Ordinance and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds as set forth in the
Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the principal amount of the
Bonds, final purchase price (which
shall be not less than 97% of the
principal
amount
plus
accrued
interest to their date of delivery),
interest rate or rates, the amounts
and
years
in
which
principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest Payment Dates
and the date of the Bonds (if different from those set forth in Section 2) and any other matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate. If it is
determined advisable by the Director of Finance for the sale of the
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to sign agreements with
a municipal bond insurer issuing a
policy of municipal bond insurance
for the Bonds that are not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The
Mayor,
Director
of
Finance, Director of Law and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized and

The City Record
directed to take such actions as are
necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish the terms and requirements for
delivery of the Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary with the Original Purchaser in
order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions
for the delivery of the Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all
appropriate
notices
and
certificates, to cause a true transcript of
proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to
sign any transcript
certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to
take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps
necessary to effect the due execution, authentication and delivery of
the Bonds. The Mayor and the
Director of Finance are, and each
of them is, hereby further authorized and directed to execute and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement
(the “Bond
Purchase Agreement”), approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, between the City
and the Original Purchaser setting
forth the terms and conditions on
which the City agrees to sell and
the Original Purchaser agrees to
buy the Bonds, provided that such
agreement shall not provide for or
require the terms of the Bonds to
be inconsistent with
this
Ordinance. The Bond Purchase Agreement is approved substantially in
the form now on the file with the
Clerk of Council in File No. 980-98A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the
City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the
best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to deter-

843

21
mine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1998”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.

22
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof.
The
funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section 8 of the
General Bond Ordinance, in each
year to the extent that revenues are
available from other sources for the
payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) here-

The City Record
of) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub- accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Four Million Three Hundred Forty Thousand
Dollars ($4,340,000) (the “Notes”)

844

June 3, 1998
upon the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding five and threefourths percent (5-3/4%) per year,
as may be fixed by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature
on the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award, which shall be no
later than five (5) years from such
date of issuance; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
provided that, if the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of the
financial advisor of the City, determines that it is in the best interest
of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, the
Director of Finance may cause the
Notes to not be redeemable for a
period which ends no later than the
date which is two (2) years following the date of issuance of the
Notes; shall be designated “Parks
and Recreation Facilities Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series 1998”; shall be issued in such
numbers and denominations as may
be requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of
Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). Subject to the
provisions of Section 5, the person
in whose name a Note is registered
on the Note Register shall be
regarded as the absolute owner of
that Note for all purposes of this
ordinance.
Payment
of
or
on
account of the debt charges on any
Note shall be made only to or upon

June 3, 1998
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Note Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Note, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. A Note may be
transferred only on the Note Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. Upon exchange or
transfer the Note Registrar shall
complete, authenticate and deliver
a new Note or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Note surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Notes surrendered upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1998”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they

The City Record
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK- Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance

845

23
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
pursuant to Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income

24
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount
or
payments
or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,

The City Record
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

846

June 3, 1998
Ord. No. 981-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $1,100,000 for the purpose
of
providing
funds
for
public
improvements of municipal properties and easements in residential
neighborhoods and to pay capitalized
interest
and
all
expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds; to authorize
agreements with respect to the
Bonds; and to authorize the issuance
of notes in anticipation of such
Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($1,100,000) (the “Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1;
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112- 83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed One Million One Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($1,100,000) for
the purpose of providing funds for
public improvements of streets and
municipal properties and easements
in
residential
neighborhoods
by
opening, widening, grading, draining, curbing and paving designated
streets,
constructing
sidewalks,
curbs and gutters and driveway
approaches, installing storm and
sanitary sewers, water lines and
storm drainage facilities as necessary and installing street lighting
and signs, signals, markings and
other devices for traffic control
together with the provision of all
necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases, including the
acquisition of any required real

June 3, 1998
estate and interests in real estate,
and to pay capitalized interest and
all expenses incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Residential Neighborhoods
Improvement Bonds, Series 1998”.
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1998, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1998, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year or
at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if all the Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed six
and three-fourths percent (6-3/4%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 of each year or on the
first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning October 1, 1998 or on such other
Interest Payment Date specified in
the Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on October 1 in twenty (20) substantially
equal annual installments, beginning October 1, 1999, or according to
the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date (hereinafter defined), (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than January 1, 1999 and
no later than August 1, 2000, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such

The City Record
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.

847

25
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate

26
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.

The City Record
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the

848

June 3, 1998
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
981-98-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the
new Bonds are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Bonds exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the

June 3, 1998
Registrar shall authenticate and
deliver Bonds in accordance with
the provisions of this ordinance.
The exchange or transfer shall be
without charge to the owner, except
that the City and Registrar may
make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or other governmental charge required to be
paid with respect to the exchange
or transfer. The City or the Registrar may require that those charges,
if any, be paid before the procedure
is begun for the exchange or transfer. All Bonds issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and
benefit under this ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and
the principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii)
physical Bond certificates in fully
registered form are issued by the
City only to a Depository or its
nominee as registered owner, with
the Bonds “immobilized” in the custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than
the City is the record that identifies the owners of beneficial interests in those Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.

The City Record
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if, in
the reasonable opinion of the Director of Finance, an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with

849

27
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 98198-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto

28
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1998”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest

The City Record
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended
and
applied
for
the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported
Obligations Account of the Sinking
Fund to be applied to the payment
of the principal of and interest on
the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General Bond Ordinance and, in addition
to the taxes and revenues specifically pledged pursuant to this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Bonds are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit of the City are hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds in accordance with the laws
and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstand-

850

June 3, 1998
ing Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub- accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the

June 3, 1998
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($1,100,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding five and threefourths per cent (5-3/4%) per year,
as may be fixed by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature
on the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award, which shall be no
later than five (5) years from such
date of issuance; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
provided that, if the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of the
financial advisor of the City, determines that it is in the best interest
of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, the
Director of Finance may cause the
Notes to not be redeemable for a
period which ends no later than the
date which is two (2) years following the date of issuance of the
Notes; shall be designated “Residential
Neighborhoods
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
1998”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded

The City Record
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1998”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express

851

29
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK- Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchasers”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or

30
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes

The City Record
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all
acts, conditions and things necessary to be done precedent to and in
the issuing of the Bonds and the
Notes in order to make then legal,
valid and binding obligations of the
City have happened, been done and
been performed in regular and due
form as required be law; and that
no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in
the issuance of the Bonds or the
Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby repre-

852

June 3, 1998
sented and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote
of all members of the Council), 36,
37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any manner
as would, impair the obligation of
contract of the City with respect to
any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration was duly received by the City
prior to the passage of this Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

June 3, 1998
Ord. No. 982-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale
of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount
of $2,025,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve
cemeteries and related buildings
and structures and to pay capitalized
interest
and
all
expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds; to authorize
agreements with respect to the
Bonds;
and
to
authorize
the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($2,025,000) (the “Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1;
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Two Million Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($2,025,000) for
the purpose of providing funds for
improving municipal cemetery facilities,
buildings,
structures
and
grounds
by
constructing,
reconstructing, installing, enlarging, renovating, and rehabilitating such
facilities, buildings, structures and
grounds, including clearing, grading and excavating land, reconstructing,
installing,
renovating,
and rehabilitating septic system,
drainage
and
sewer
facilities,
installing access roadways including any necessary bridges and culverts, installing utility lines, laying
out and numbering burial plots, and
planting and landscaping, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto, and includ-

The City Record
ing the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real
estate, and to pay capitalized interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
Bonds,
including
any
financing
costs
within
the
meaning
of
Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Revised
Code Section 133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to
authorize the issuance of notes in
anticipation of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Cemeteries
Improvement
Bonds, Series 1998”. The Bonds shall
be issued in one lot as fully registered Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1998, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1998, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year or
at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if all the Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed six
and three-fourths percent (6-3/4%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 of each year or on the
first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning October 1, 1998 or on such other
Interest Payment Date specified in
the Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on October 1 in twenty (20) substantially
equal annual installments, beginning October 1, 1999, or according to
the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date (hereinafter defined), (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than January 1, 1999 and
no later than August 1, 2000, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such

853

31
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.

32
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the
principal
amount
thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption
obligation).
Any
excess of that amount over the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement shall be
credited against subsequent Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (and corresponding
mandatory redemption obligations)
in the order directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional
Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the
maximum
redemption
price
shall be no greater than 102% of the
principal amount redeemed, plus
accrued interest to the redemption
date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds,
or portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least fortyfive (45) days prior to the redemption date or such shorter period as
shall be acceptable to the Registrar. In the event that notice of
redemption shall have been given
by the Registrar to the registered
owners as
hereinafter
provided,
there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to
any
other moneys
available
therefor and held by the Registrar,
will be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption price thereof, plus interest accrued to the redemption date,
all of the redeemable Bonds for
which notice of redemption has
been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000

The City Record
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and

854

June 3, 1998
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under
the General Bond Ordinance), which
are not included in this Ordinance
and will not apply to the Bonds, the
General Bond Ordinance is included
as a part of this Ordinance as fully
as if restated herein. Words and
terms not otherwise defined herein
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.

June 3, 1998
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
982-98-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new

The City Record
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a
book entry system is utilized: (i)
the Bonds may be issued in the
form of a single, fully registered
Bond representing each maturity
and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository; (ii) the
beneficial owners in book entry
form shall have no right to receive
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of beneficial interests in book entry
form shall be shown by book entry
on the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of beneficial interests shall
be made only by book entry by the
Depository and its Participants; and
(iv) the Bonds as such shall not be
transferable
or
exchangeable,
except
for
transfer
to
another

855

33
Depository or to another nominee of
a Depository, without further action
by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if, in
the reasonable opinion of the Director of Finance, an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insur-

34
er issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 98298-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,

The City Record
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1998”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and

856

June 3, 1998
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be

June 3, 1998
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges
due or to become due thereon, and
provision shall also be made for
paying all other sums payable
hereunder, then and in that event
this Ordinance (except for Section
8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations
of the City under this Ordinance
shall be discharged and satisfied,
and thereupon the Trustee shall at
the request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments in writing as shall discharge the lien hereof and enter on
the record such discharge of the
lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub- accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United States certified
by an independent public accounting firm of national reputation to
be of such maturities and interest
payment dates and to bear such
interest, without further investment
or reinvestment of either the principal amount thereof or the interest
earnings therefrom (likewise to be
held in trust and committed, except
as hereinafter provided), as will be
sufficient, together with moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on
the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be,
or if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by
the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing,
or redeemable at the option of the
holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed
by the Director of Finance. Any
income or interest earned by, or
increment to, the investments held
under this Section shall, to the
extent determined from time to time
by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this
Section, be transferred at the time
of such determination as provided
in Section 17(a) of the General
Bond
Ordinance
for
unclaimed
funds held by a Paying Agent. In
the event of nonpresentment of any
Bond as described in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance, the
moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held and paid as provided in said Section 17(a) for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent.

The City Record
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Two Million Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($2,025,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding five and threefourths per cent (5-3/4%) per year,
as may be fixed by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature
on the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award, which shall be no
later than five (5) years from such
date of issuance; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
provided that, if the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of the
financial advisor of the City, determines that it is in the best interest
of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, the
Director of Finance may cause the
Notes to not be redeemable for a
period which ends no later than the
date which is two (2) years following the date of issuance of the
Notes; shall be designated “Cemeteries Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1998”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in

857

35
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1998”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided

36
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK- Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchasers”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the

The City Record
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required of
it for the interest on the Notes and
the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure

858

June 3, 1998
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,

June 3, 1998
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 983-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $7,275,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for improving
buildings and structures housing
and providing for the discharge of
governmental functions and services
and permitting the performance of
services utilized by the public or
otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare and to pay
capitalized interest and all expenses incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds; to authorize
agreements with respect to the
Bonds; and to authorize the issuance
of notes in anticipation of such
Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seven Million
Two
Hundred
Seventy-Five
Thousand Dollars ($7,275,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112- 83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Seven Million Two Hundred
Seventy-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($7,275,000) for the purpose of providing funds for constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, installing,
renovating, enlarging and otherwise
improving buildings and structures
housing and providing for the discharge of governmental functions
and services and permitting the performance of services utilized by the
public or otherwise benefiting the
public safety, health and welfare,
including facilities in, of and for the
City Hall, police stations, safety stations, service stations, centers and

859

37
facilities, waste collection, transfer
and disposal facilities, and the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, appurtenances,
utilities and other infrastructure,
and site improvements for the purpose, together with all preliminary
associated research, planning and
development, and for the purpose of
paying capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 1998”. The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully
registered Bonds in denominations
of $5,000 or any integral multiple
thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1998, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1998, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year or
at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if all the Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed six
and three-fourths percent (6-3/4%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 of each year or on the
first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning October 1, 1998 or on such other
Interest Payment Date specified in
the Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on October 1 in twenty (20) substantially
equal annual installments, beginning October 1, 1999, or according to
the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date (hereinafter defined), (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than January 1, 1999 and
no later than August 1, 2000, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds

38
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund

The City Record
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Regis-

860

June 3, 1998
trar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the

June 3, 1998
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under
the General Bond Ordinance), which
are not included in this Ordinance
and will not apply to the Bonds, the
General Bond Ordinance is included
as a part of this Ordinance as fully
as if restated herein. Words and
terms not otherwise defined herein
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her

The City Record
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
983-98-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.

861

39
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a
book entry system is utilized: (i)
the Bonds may be issued in the
form of a single, fully registered
Bond representing each maturity
and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository; (ii) the
beneficial owners in book entry
form shall have no right to receive
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of beneficial interests in book entry
form shall be shown by book entry
on the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of beneficial interests shall
be made only by book entry by the

40
Depository and its Participants; and
(iv) the Bonds as such shall not be
transferable
or
exchangeable,
except
for
transfer
to
another
Depository or to another nominee of
a Depository, without further action
by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository and any other arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall
permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and
Registrar shall authenticate and
deliver bond certificates in registered form to the assigns of the
Depository or its nominee, all at the
cost and expense (including any
costs of printing), if the event is
not the result of City action or inaction, of those persons requesting
such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if, in
the reasonable opinion of the Director of Finance, an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Cer-

The City Record
tificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 98398-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and

862

June 3, 1998
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1998”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,

June 3, 1998
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General Bond Ordinance and, in addition
to the taxes and revenues specifically pledged pursuant to this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Bonds are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit of the City are hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds in accordance with the laws
and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.

The City Record
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges
due or to become due thereon, and
provision shall also be made for
paying all other sums payable
hereunder, then and in that event
this Ordinance (except for Section
8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations
of the City under this Ordinance
shall be discharged and satisfied,
and thereupon the Trustee shall at
the request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments in writing as shall discharge the lien hereof and enter on
the record such discharge of the
lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub- accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held

863

41
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seven
Million Two Hundred Seventy-Five
Thousand Dollars ($7,275,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding six and threefourths per cent (6-3/4%) per year,
as may be fixed by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature
on the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award, which shall be no
later than five (5) years from such
date of issuance; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
provided that, if the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of the
financial advisor of the City, determines that it is in the best interest
of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, the
Director of Finance may cause the
Notes to not be redeemable for a
period which ends no later than the
date which is two (2) years following the date of issuance of the
Notes; shall be designated “Public
Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1998”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and

42
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1998”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.

The City Record

June 3, 1998

Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.

Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.

Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK- Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.

Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.

Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.

864

Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt

June 3, 1998
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as

The City Record
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any manner
as would, impair the obligation of
contract of the City with respect to
any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration was duly received by the City
prior to the passage of this Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immedi-

865

43
ately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 984-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $11,820,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve
the municipal street system and
related facilities and to pay capitalized
interest
and
all
expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds; to authorize
agreements with respect to the
Bonds; and to authorize the issuance
of notes in anticipation of such
Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eleven
Million
Eight
Hundred
Twenty
Thousand Dollars ($11,820,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is seventeen
(17) years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112- 83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore, Be it ordained by the
Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Eleven Million Eight Hundred
Twenty
Thousand
Dollars
($11,820,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal street system and related facilities, including streets, expressways,
roadways, driveways and pedestrian
walkways as designated, by acquiring,
constructing,
reconstructing,
opening, extending, widening, grading, draining, paving, resurfacing,
lighting and curbing, installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian
improvements,
constructing

44
and improving retaining walls, relocating certain utilities, resetting
and constructing catch basins and
other storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing,
renovating
and
rehabilitating
bridges, acquiring any real estate
and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such
purpose, and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for
traffic control purposes, together
with the payment of all associated
preliminary costs and costs of site
clearance and all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto,
and to pay capitalized interest and
all expenses incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement Bonds, Series 1998”.
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1998, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1998, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year or
at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if all the Bonds bear
interest at the same rate per year,
then such rate shall not exceed six
and three-fourths percent (6-3/4%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed six and threefourths percent (6-3/4%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 of each year or on the
first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning October 1, 1998 or on such other
Interest Payment Date specified in
the Certificate of Award as the first
Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on October 1 in seventeen (17) substantially equal annual installments, beginning October 1, 1999, or according to
the schedule set forth in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)

The City Record
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date (hereinafter defined), (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than January 1, 1999 and
no later than August 1, 2000, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than seventeen
(17) years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund

866

June 3, 1998
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than

June 3, 1998
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposit-

The City Record
ed in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the “Record Date”).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the

867

45
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
984-98-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner

46
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the

The City Record
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to SBKBrooks
Investment
Corp.,
A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if, in
the reasonable opinion of the Director of Finance, an underwriter is
incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from

868

June 3, 1998
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 98498-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those offi-

June 3, 1998
cers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its
continuing
disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing notice of the occurrence of
any other events, the Director of
Finance
shall
consult
with,
as
appropriate, the legal counsel and
bond or other qualified independent
special counsel to the City. The
Director of Finance, acting in the
name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1998”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the

The City Record
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended
and
applied
for
the
objects and purposes for which the
Bonds are issued. Accrued interest
and any premium received from the
sale of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported
Obligations Account of the Sinking
Fund to be applied to the payment
of the principal of and interest on
the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and

869

47
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpre-

48
sentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eleven
Million
Eight
Hundred
Twenty
Thousand Dollars ($11,820,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding five and threefourths per cent (5-3/4%) per year,
as may be fixed by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature
on the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award, which shall be no
later than five (5) years from such
date of issuance; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
provided that, if the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of the
financial advisor of the City, determines that it is in the best interest
of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, the
Director of Finance may cause the
Notes to not be redeemable for a
period which ends no later than the
date which is two (2) years following the date of issuance of the
Notes; shall be designated “Bridges
and Roadways Improvement Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series
1998”;
shall be issued in such numbers and
denominations as may be requested
by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi- annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
Star Bank, National Association,
is appointed to act as the authenticating agent,
registrar,
transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Notes (the “Note Registrar”); provided that the Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes so long as the Notes are held
in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, an agreement among the City,
the Note Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Note Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money
lawfully
available
and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.

The City Record
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1998”. The Notes shall

870

June 3, 1998
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
SBK- Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Key Capital
Markets, Inc., Lehman Brothers, and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all

June 3, 1998
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required of
it for the interest on the Notes and
the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and records and make calculations and reports, and (v) refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and,
as
applicable,
of
property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.

The City Record
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in

871

49
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affir-

The City Record

50
mative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 985-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
enter into contract without competitive
bidding
with
National
Underground
Storage,
Inc.
for
lease of space for the storage of
records, and the purchase of services related to the storage of
records.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, is hereby authorized to enter
into a rental agreement with National Underground Storage, Inc.
(“NUS”) for a period of one year on
the basis of its proposal dated April
24, 1998, and shall additionally provide for two one-year options, exercisable by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to extend the agreement
for a second and third successive
year, based upon the terms proposed
in NUS’s proposal dated April 24,
1998, for the lease of approximately
8,000 cubic feet of space for the
storage of the records of the Cleveland Municipal Court. The rental
agreement authorized herein shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and its cost shall be payable from
Fund No. 01-01-16-0360, Request No.
22651.

June 3, 1998

Section 2. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and incidental
to the lease of space authorized by
Section 1 of this ordinance, and cannot be secured from any source
other than NUS. Therefore, the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court, is hereby authorized and directed to make
a written requirement contract with
said NUS upon the basis of its proposal dated April 24, 1998, with two
(2) options exercisable by the Director of Finance, to renew for additional one-year consecutive terms,
and cancellable upon thirty days
written notice by said director, for
miscellaneous
reference
and
retrieval services, such as filing, file
delivery,
faxing,
photocopying,
entry and destruction of records, for
a period of one year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Cleveland Municipal
Court.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-01-16-0360,
Request No. 22651.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 986-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of a criminal
and civil filing system, including
materials necessary to file and
retrieve cases, for the Department of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Court, is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written requirement contract
in accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements
for the period of one year for the
necessary items of the 1999 criminal
and civil filing system, including
folders,
labels,
tabs,
envelopes,
shelving, and other materials necessary to file and retrieve cases in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Department of Finance,
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22650)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 987-98.
By Councilman Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums
herein set forth opposite the names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to pay as Moral Claims the sums set
forth opposite and names of the following claimants and charged against the fund numbers opposite the names
of the claimants:
Claimant
Carol & Robert Gray

Claim No.
10439

Amount
$289.57

Ivan & Connie Allen

10446

1,500.00

Alan Kovach

10451

65.00

George Smedley

10460

1,500.00

Robert Thomas

10475

139.57

872

Division
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control

Fund
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001

The City Record

June 3, 1998

51

Lee & Willie Curry

10477

1,500.00

Water Pollution
Control

54 SF 001

Patrick J. Daley

10478

1,500.00

54 SF 001

Lenny Zemon

10487

47.28

Marilyn Gonzalez

10507

39.59

Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control

Jason & Lisa Kabay

10509

150.00

Reginald Lathan as
parent of Sharnae &
Reginald Lathan, Jr

10320

500.00

C.P. Towing
Keynan Williams
Geraldine Nigro
Jon Murchinson &
Patrick Garrett
Terry Mountcastle

10358
10429
10454
10457

1,542.51
419.95
250.00
1,163.56

10458

550.00

Police

01-60-02-0720

10462
10463A
10463B
10465
10469

500.00
1,000.00
292.60
1,927.14
250.00

Police
Police
Police
Police
Police

01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720

Brett Portaro
Eric Balawender
Kim Barnard
Catherine Givhan
Nadia Ahmetovic
David Van Buren

10474
10485
10493
10500
10516
10517

250.00
199.99
176.34
500.00
500.00
1,113.21

Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police

01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720

Crystal Davis
Mark E. Crawford
Alfred J. Morris
Rhonda McJunkins
Steven C. Rock

10524
10464
10490
10496
10497

98.00
1,184.22
1,350.00
35.00
225.00

Police
Fire
Fire
Fire
Fire

01-60-02-0720
01-60-03-0720
01-60-03-0720
01-60-03-0720
01-60-03-0720

Susan Holderness

10505

100.00

01-60-04-0720

Morris and Imogene
Vowell
Ronald Knapp

10442

100.00

10450

774.25

Emergency
Medical Service
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)

Walter Lou Rodgers

10461

342.05

01-70-02-0720

Joseph Nahra

10455

1,400.00

Neil T. Clough

10432

600.00

Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)
Property
Management
Park Maintenance

Eleanor Billips
Jesus & Oneida Lozada
Elizabeth Borowske
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Annie R. Carter

Rosetta Young

10467

250.00

Earl N. Lewis

10468

311.00

William & Edna Myers

10511

200.63

Linda Lascu

10472

60.00

Dart Trucking Inc.
Eugene Rochon &

10510
10513

3,750.00
288.37

Water Pollution
Control
Police

Police
Police
Police
Police

and
Park
and
Park
and
Park

Properties
Maintenance
Properties
Maintenance
Properties
Maintenance

and Properties
Municipal Clerk
of Courts
Waste Collection
Waste Collection

54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
01-60-02-0720

01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720

01-70-02-0720
01-70-02-0720

01-70-11-0720
01-70-10-0720
01-70-10-0720
01-70-10-0720
01-70-10-0720
01-01-16-0720
01-40-03-0720
01-40-03-0720

Sherry Guddy
Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts set forth in Section 1 of this ordinance is conditioned upon a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim
within six months from the effective date of this ordinance. In addition, the Commission awarded certain services to be rendered by the Division of Building and Housing with regard to the demolition of the
ed at 951 East 144th Street for claimant Dwight Yancy, Claim No. 10361.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be
diately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

873

property locatit receives the
in force immefrom and after

52
Ord. No. 988-98.
By Councilmen Patmon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide filter performance evaluation of water treatment plants, including related testing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
and directed to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to perform filter performance evaluation of water treatment plants and related testing.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Utilities, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 24020.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 989-98.
By Councilmen Patmon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials to maintain HVAC equipment, for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of labor and materials to maintain
HVAC equipment in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases

The City Record
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
23028)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 990-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement
contract
of
de-icing
agents, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for
a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of de-icing agents in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport and the Division of Burke Lakefront Airport,
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and

874

June 3, 1998
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22552)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 991-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to execute deicing collection services, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two (2) years for the necessary
items of labor and materials necessary to execute de-icing collection
services, including but not limited
to, analyzing, storing, disposing,
reselling recycled glycol, supervising,
reporting,
maintaining,
and
renting space, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22553)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

The City Record

June 3, 1998
Ord. No. 992-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with IMG Motorsports Cleveland, Inc. for use of certain
premises at Burke Lakefront Airport
to conduct the Grand Prix auto
races.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease By Way of Concession
(“Lease”) with IMG Motorsports Cleveland, Inc. (“Lessee”) for use of
certain premises at Burke Lakefront
Airport (“Airport”) to conduct the
Grand Prix auto races during specific two (2) to three (3) day periods each summer of the term of the
Lease. The term of such Lease shall
be for five (5) years and commence
upon the date of execution and,
unless sooner cancelled or terminated, shall expire in 2002, after the
conduct of the race events and upon
payment of all amounts due and performance of all requirements of the
Lease by Lessee. Lessee shall pay
as rent for the use of the premises
as follows:
Year

Rent

1998
1999
2000
2001
2002

$55,000
60,000
65,000
70,000
75,000

In addition, Lessee shall pay
annually five percent (5%) of gross
revenues in excess of the “Gross
Revenue Threshold” as follows:
Year

Gross Revenue
Threshold

1998
1999
2000
2001
2002

$4,500,000
4,500,000
4,750,000
4,750,000
5,000,000

Section 2. That the Lease authorized herein shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such other terms and conditions
as said Director deems necessary to
protect
and
benefit
the
public
interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 993-98.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Pearl Court S.W. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 25th day of September, 1995 the Council of the City
of Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
1259-95 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Pearl Court S.W.,
hereinafter described.

Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1259-95 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Pearl Court
S.W., affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 3rd day of December, 1997, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Pearl Court S.W., hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Pearl Court S.W., hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Pearl Court S.W. (25 feet wide)
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of West 25th Street (66 feet
wide) to that portion of Pearl Court
S.W. as vacated by the Council of
the City of Cleveland by Ordinance
Number 2841-86, passed February 11,
1987, be and the same is hereby
vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Pearl Court S.W., herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 994-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of ~replacement receptacle lids, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year for the necessary items of replacement receptacle lids for concrete receptacles in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies

875

53
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as
to permit an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less
than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
23157)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds
of all the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 995-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of International truck parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of International truck parts, including labor if necessary in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial

54
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24136)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 996-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment, including labor if necessary,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment, including labor
if necessary in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24137)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 997-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of labor
and materials necessary to repair or
replace the fuel dispensing pumps
and systems necessary for fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts,
oil and grease dispensing equipment, stationary air compressor,
and for emergency cleanup and
replacement
of
leaking
underground storage tanks and systems,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of labor and materials necessary to
repair or replace the fuel dispensing
pumps and systems necessary for
fuel
operations,
fuel
tankers,
hydraulic lifts, oil and grease dispensing equipment, and stationary
air compressor, and for emergency
clean up and replacement of leaking
underground storage tanks and systems, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24134)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

876

June 3, 1998
Ord. No. 998-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of ~various
automotive, van and truck~ parts,
including labor if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of various automotive, van and
truck parts, including labor if necessary in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of
Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director
of
Finance. (RL 24135)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds
of all the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 999-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Rybka
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1471-96,
passed October 14, 1996, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating and reconstructing portions
of Arlington Avenue, East 123rd
Street and East 125th Streets.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1471-96, passed October 14,
1996, is hereby amended to read as
follows:

June 3, 1998
Section 7. That the costs of the
Improvement, services and property
acquisition
herein
contemplated
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF
001, 54 SF 001, 20 SF 322, 20 SF 312,
20 SF 302 and 20 SF 334, Request No.
21800, and from the proceeds of any
grant funds from the Ohio Public
Works Commission.
Section 2. That existing Section 7
of Ordinance No. 1471-96, passed
October 14, 1996, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1000-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1468-96,
passed October 14, 1996, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating and reconstructing Bessemer
Avenue from East 65th Street to
East 88th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1468-96, passed October 14,
1996, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 7. That the costs of the
Improvement, services and property
acquisition
herein
contemplated
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF
001, 54 SF 001, 20 SF 322, 20 SF 312,
20 SF 302 and 20 SF 334, Request No.
21798, and from the proceeds of any
grant funds from the Ohio Public
Works Commission.
Section 2. That existing Section 7
of Ordinance No. 1468-96, passed
October 14, 1996, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1001-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1467-96,
passed October 14, 1996, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating and reconstructing East 55th
Street from Blanche Avenue to
Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1467-96, passed October 14,
1996, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 7. That the costs of the
Improvement, services and property
acquisition
herein
contemplated
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF
001, 54 SF 001, 20 SF 322, 20 SF 312,
20 SF 302 and 20 SF 334, Request No.
21797, and from the proceeds of any
grant funds from the Ohio Public
Works Commission.
Section 2. That existing Section 7
of Ordinance No. 1467-96, passed
October 14, 1996, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1002-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Rybka
and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public
improvement
of
grinding
pavement and authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into a
public
improvement
requirement
contract for the making of such
improvement for a period of one
year and to extend Contract No.
51520 with Kenmore Construction
Co.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of grinding pavement, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service, by a public improvement requirement contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That, the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into a requirement contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement for the period
of not to exceed one year. Bids shall
be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Director of Public Service
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to extend Contract No. 51520 with
Kenmore
Construction
Company,
Inc., with the same terms and conditions, until such time as the City
enters into a new contract for pavement grinding or November 30, 1998,
whichever is earlier, to provide for
additional pavement grinding services.

877

55
Section 4. That the cost of said
extension shall be paid from Fund
No. 10 SF 401, Request No. 21350.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds
of all the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1003-98.
By Councilmen Polensek, Willis,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located
at
17901-17903
St.
Clair
Avenue and 18111 St. Clair Avenue
to Collinwood Nottingham Villages
Development Corporation.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
has
requested the sale of City-owned
property no longer needed for public use and located at 17901-17903 St.
Clair Avenue and 18111 St. Clair
Avenue, identified as Permanent
Parcels 116-18-010, 116-18-011, 116-18012, and 116-18-013 to Collinwood Nottingham Villages Development Corporation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
(Insert legal)
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described property to Collinwood Nottingham Villages Development Corporation, at a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to prepare and execute such other documents and certificates and take such other action
as maybe necessary or appropriate
to effectuate the sale authorized by
this ordinance.

56
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1004-98.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson and Johnson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and
9 of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed
December 16, 1996, relating to the
Director of Community Development
to apply for a Section 108 Loan from
the U.S. Department of HUD in order
to provide economic assistance to
partially finance the redevelopment
of buildings located at 1001 Huron,
1020 Huron and 1104 Prospect; to
enter into a Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract; to
enter into contract with Gateway at
Playhouse Square Associates, ~Limited Liability Company; to supplement Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed
December 16, 1996, by adding new
Section 11; and to renumber existing
Section 11 as new Section 12.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. To amend the title, Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed December
16, 1996, to read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for a Section
108 Loan from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development in order to provide economic
assistance
to
partially
finance the redevelopment of buildings located at 1001 Huron, 1020
Huron and 1104 Prospect; authorizing said director to enter into a
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract with Gateway
at Playhouse Square Associated,
Limited Liability Company, or its
designee; and to enter into a Section
108 contract with Gateway at Playhouse Square Associates, Limited
Liability Company, or its designee,
to provide economic development
assistance for the redevelopment of
buildings located at 1101 Huron,
1020 Huron and 1104 Prospect.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to apply for a loan in the
amount of One Million Nine Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($1,900,000), from
the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development
(“HUD”) Section 108 Loan Program
(“108 Loan”), for the purposes set
forth in the application and according thereto.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a Section
108 contract and, the provisions of
Ordinance No. 56-94, passed June 13,
1994, to the contrary notwithstanding, a Neighborhood Development

The City Record
Investment
Fund
contract
with
Gateway at Playhouse Square Associates, Limited Liability Company,
or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to redevelop
the buildings located at 1001 Huron,
1020 Huron and 1103 Prospect, collectively known as the Gateway at
Playhouse Square Project, as housing and retail spaces. The terms of
the
Neighborhood
Development
Investment Fund contract shall comply with the requirements of the
Neighborhood Development Investment Program and NDIF, as set
forth in Section 1 of Ordinance No.
56-94, passed June 13 1994.
Section 5. That the terms of said
loans shall be in accordance with
the terms as set forth in the executive summary also contained in the
file mentioned in Section 3.
Section 6. That the costs of said
contracts shall not exceed an aggregate amount of Two Million Five
Hundred
Thousand
Dollars
($2,500,000), and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 13 SF 839, 10 SF 501,
Request No. 23057, and from future
community development block grant
funds and UDAG repayment funds
which are appropriated to pay the
costs of said contract.
Section 7. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
the collateral as set forth in the
Executive summary contained in the
file referenced in Sections 3 and 5
of this ordinance in order to secure
repayments of both loans. Any security instruments shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law
Section 8. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of both loans, and to
deposit said monies into Fund Nos.
13 SF 839 and 10 SF 502.
Section 9. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept charges and
accept fees in an amount not to
exceed
the
maximum
allowable
under
federal
regulations
and
expend such fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan applications, closings and servicing of both loans. such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund Nos. 13 SF 839 and 17 SF 305.
Section 2. That the existing title,
Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed December
16, 1996, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 192996, passed December 16, 1996, is
hereby supplementing by adding
new Section 11 to read as follows:
Section 11. That, prior to entering
into any Neighborhood Development
Investment Fund contract authorized
herein, the Director of Finance is
required and hereby directed to certify that un-appropriated funds equal
to the contract amount set forth in
Section 3 of this ordinance have been
collected by the City and are available to be allocated to such contract.
Section 4. That existing Section 11
of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed
December 16, 1996, is hereby renumbered to new “Section 12”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

878

June 3, 1998
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1005-98.
By Councilmen Coats, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 14810-12 St. Clair
Avenue to Pamela J. Hagler.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 115-13-008,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Pamela J. Hagler.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 115-13-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
1 and part of Sublot No. 4 in A.W.
Baldwin’s Subdivision of part of
Original Euclid Township Lot No. 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 23 of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line
of St. Clair Avenue, N.E., at the
Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 1;
thence Westerly along said Southerly line of St. Clair Avenue, N.E.,
44.00 feet to the Northwesterly corner of Sublot No. 1; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said
Sublots Nos. 1 and 4, 153-60/100 feet;
thence Easterly on a line parallel to
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
1, 44 feet to the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly line of said
Sublot No. 1; thence Northerly along
said Southerly prolongation and
along said Easterly line of Sublot
No. 1, 153-60/100 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of

June 3, 1998
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1006-98.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1890 and 1884 East
70th Street to Louise V. Jackson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-07-044
and
118-07-045,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Louise V. Jackson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 118-07-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 34 in Streator and Adams’

The City Record
Subdivision of part of Original 100
Acre Lots Nos. 338 and 341, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 34 at the Northeasterly corner of the first parcel of
land conveyed to the Frank L. Cody
Building Company by deed recorded
in Volume 607, Page 457 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 34, 167.71 feet to the
Westerly line of East 70th Street,
(formerly Russell Avenue); thence
Southerly along said Westerly line
of East 70th Street, 65 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 34; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 34 to the
Southeasterly corner of said parcel
so conveyed to the Frank L. Cody
Building Company; thence Northerly
parallel with the Westerly line of
East 70th Street about 64.88 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P.P. No. 118-07-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 35 in W.S. Steator and
D. Adams Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Nos. 338 and 341 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
4
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 70th Street (formerly Russell
Street) at the Southeasterly corner
of
said
Sublot
No.
35;
thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East 70th Street, 56 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with the Southerly line of Sublot No. 36 in said Subdivision 173.45 feet; thence Southerly 6 feet to the Northerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed by James
L. Higgins, to Mary T. Terry, and
husband to the Frank L. Cody
Building Company, by deed dated
March 9, 1896 and recorded in Volume 629, Page 402; thence Westerly,
along a Southerly line of land so
conveyed to the Frank L. Cody
Building Company, 3 feet; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
land so conveyed to the Frank L.
Cody Building Company, 50 feet to
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
35;
thence
Easterly
along
the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 35,
176 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions

879

57
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1007-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Community Development to enter
into contract for the demolition of
not to exceed four school buildings
recently acquired by the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 383-97, passed December 15, 1997,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
acquired
sites
for
the
Department of Community Development for land assembly and future
redevelopment, several of which
sites were Cleveland Public School
buildings; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized and directed to make a written contact in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
demolition of each or all of the following buildings formerly-owned by
the Cleveland Public Schools: John
Adams High School, located at 3817
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard;
West Tech High School, located at
2201 West 93rd Street; Hazeldell
School, located at 654 East 124th
Street; and Longmeade School, located at 12712 Longmeade Avenue, for
the
Department
of
Community
Development.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 501,
Request No. 23111.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

58
Ord. No. 1008-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
the Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation to continue the
administration
of
the
Industrial
Retention and Expansion Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is hereby authorized and directed to enter into contract with the Cleveland Neighborhood
Development
Corporation
(“CNDC”) to provide the professional
services necessary to administer the
Program for the Program participants, in the total sum of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000.00),
payable from Fund No. 17 SF 652,
Request No. 24286, for the Department of Economic Development.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1009-98.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson, Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with ITX Corporation to provide for a ten year abatement for certain tangible personal
property taxes as an incentive to
expand its facilities by acquiring
and rehabilitating a building located at 955 West Street, and to assist
in the purchase of machinery and
equipment in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, ITX Corporation (the
“Enterprise”)
has
proposed
to
expand its facilities at its operation
in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property taxes the
Enterprise would be at a competitive disadvantage by operating at
this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and for
the further reason that its enactment
is a necessary prerequisite to pro-

The City Record
viding immediate assistance to create and preserve job opportunities
and advance and promote commercial and economic development in the
City of Cleveland, such assistance
being immediately necessary or such
jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of ITX
Corporation
for
enterprise
zone
incentives on the basis that ITX
Corporation is qualified by financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with ITX Corporation to provide for a ten (10) year abatement
for certain tangible personal property taxes as an incentive to expand
its facilities by acquiring and rehabilitating a building located at 955
West Street, and to assist in the purchase of machinery and equipment in
Cleveland, Ohio; said abatement shall
be subject to annual review of the
Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 1009-98-A.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1010-98.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson and Johnson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with
Colonial Market Place, LLC, to provide for service payments for the
purpose of repayment of the revenue
bonds to be issued for the purpose
of assisting with the financing of
the rehabilitation and redevelopment of the Colonial and Euclid
Arcades and to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District, and to declare certain
improvements to real property to be
a public purpose.
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 2606-81,
passed December 14, 1981, as amended by Ordinance No. 1766-87, passed

880

June 3, 1998
November 16, 1987, and as further
amended by Ordinance No. 2317-92,
passed December 14, 1992, this Council designated the Euclid/Prospect
Area (“Area”) and approved the
Euclid/Prospect
Area
Community
Development Plan (“Plan”); and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
improvements to real property within the Area and consistent with the
Plan, may be declared to be a public purpose where fee title to such
real property was, at one time, held
by the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 925-98, passed
________, 1998, the City acquired fee
title to certain real property within
the Area, which is more particularly described in the documents set
forth in the file described in Section
1 of this ordinance (the “Real Property”), prior to adoption of this Ordinance; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
such improvements so declared to
be
a
public
purpose
may
be
exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.42 of the Ohio Revised Code,
the owners of such improvements
may be required to make annual
service payments in lieu of taxes
that would have been paid had
such
improvements
not
been
exempt; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
said exemption may exceed 75% of
such improvements for up to thirty
(30) years when a portion of the
service payments so collected are
distributed to the Cleveland City
School District (“District”) in an
amount equal to the amount the
District would have received had
the improvements not been exempt;
and
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
City
School District has been notified of
the intent to enter into the agreement authorized herein, in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and
5709.83 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements
to be constructed in the Area by
Colonial Market Place, LLC (“Redeveloper”), as more fully described
in the plans contained in File No.
1010-98-A (“Improvements”), on the
Real Property, are hereby declared
to be a public purpose, for purposes
of Section 5709.41 and 5709.42 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are hereby declared exempt from
real property taxation for a period
of twenty (20) years; and that in
no event shall the exemption period extend beyond December 31,
2021.
Section 3. That, pursuant to Section 5709.42 of the Ohio Revised
Code, Redeveloper (or the owners
of the Improvements) shall make
service payments for a period of
twenty (20) years, or such other
period necessary to redeem the
bonds described in Section 6 of this
Ordinance, in lieu of said exempt
taxes to the Cuyahoga County Treasurer;
said
payments
shall
be
charged and collected in the same

June 3, 1998
manner, and shall be in an amount
not less than the taxes that would
have been paid, had the Improvements not been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That pursuant to Section 5709.43 of the Ohio Revised
Code there is hereby established an
Arcades Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund.
Section 5. That a portion of the
service payments collected pursuant
to Section 3 hereof shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District in the amount of the taxes that
would have been payable to the District had the Improvements not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 6. That the balance of the
service
payments
collected
pursuant to Section 3 hereof shall be
distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of
the City of Cleveland and deposited in the Arcades Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent
Fund created by Section 4 hereof to
pay the principal (whether at maturity or by prior redemption) of, and
interest on revenue bonds issued by
the City, pursuant to additional,
appropriate
legislation
of
this
Council, or other appropriate governmental issuer to finance a portion of the costs of the Improvements, and the costs attributable to
the sale of the Bonds, inclusive of
attorneys’
fees,
appraisals
and
other similar fees.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an agreement or agreements with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption
and service payments
described
herein, including agreements securing the payments described in Section 3 of this Ordinance, which
agreement or agreements shall contain those terms set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
the file referenced in Section 1 of
this ordinance and such other terms
and conditions as the Directors of
Economic Development and Law
deem necessary to protect the public interest; and to enter into such
other
agreement
or
agreements
with such other appropriate governmental issuer, necessary and appropriate to issue and redeem the
bonds described in Section 6 of this
Ordinance,
which
agreement(s)
shall contain those terms and conditions as the Directors of Economic Development and Law deem necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 8. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were adopted in open
meetings of this Council, and any of
its committees that resulted in such
formal action were in meetings open
to the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1011-98.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jackson, Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a contract with Flats Realty, Ltd. to provide economic development assistance to expand its facility by
acquiring, renovating and purchasing machinery and equipment for
its facility located at 955 West
Street and 1100 Center Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Flats Realty, Ltd. to provide
economic development assistance
to expand its facility by acquiring,
renovating
and
purchasing
machinery and equipment for its
facility located at 955 West Street
and 1100 Center Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 101198-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Three
Hundred Seventy Six Thousand Dollars ($376,000), and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request
No. 24279.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
the collateral as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
the file referenced in Section 2 of
this ordinance in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized
to
accept monies in
repayment
of
the loan and to
deposit said monies in Fund No. 17
SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Com-

881

59
mittees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1012-98.
By Councilmen Coats, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
S.R.S. Company, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to
purchase and renovate real property
located at 12911 Taft Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with S.R.S. Company, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
purchase and renovate real property
located at 12911 Taft Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 101298-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Hundred
Forty
Thousand
Dollars
($240,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request No.
24280.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
the collateral as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
the file referenced in Section 2 of
this ordinance in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to
accept monies in
repayment of
the loan and to
deposit said monies in Fund No. 17
SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.

60
Ord. No. 1013-98.
By Councilmen Jones, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Helima Rollform, LLC., to provide for a ten year
abatement for certain tangible personal property and real estate taxes
as an incentive to acquire and relocate a tubing mill operation and to
purchase equipment and machinery to
4500 Lee Road located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Helima Rollform, LLC
(the “Enterprise”) has proposed to
expand its facilities at its operation
in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of Helima Rollform, LLC., for enterprise
zone incentives on the basis that
Helima Rollform, LLC., is qualified
by financial responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone
and to improve the economic climate
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Helima Rollform, LLC. to provide for a ten (10)
year abatement for certain tangible
personal property and real estate
taxes as an incentive to acquire and
relocate a tubing mill operation
from South Carolina to 4500 Lee
Road, Cleveland, Ohio, and to purchase equipment and machinery;
said abatement shall be subject to
annual review of the Tax Incentive
Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 1013-98-A.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept
fees in an amount not to exceed the

The City Record
maximum allowable under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code and such
funds are hereby appropriated for
the purposes set forth in Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred
to
Directors
of
Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1014-98.
By Councilmen Polensek, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Neighborhood
Development Investment Fund contract with Cleveland Range, Inc., to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the renovation and asbestos abatement for
property located at 17901-03 and
18111 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, through Ordinance No.
56-94, passed June 13, 1994, the City
established the Neighborhood Development Investment Program and the
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund (NDIF) for the purpose
of stimulating the development of
major opportunities for job creation,
retention, and expansion in the
City’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, subject to the provisions of Section 8 of this Ordinance, the Director of Economic
Development is hereby authorized
to enter into a Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract
with Cleveland Range, Inc., to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the renovation and asbestos abatement for
property located at 17901-03 and
18111 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said
contract shall comply with the
requirements of the Neighborhood
Development Investment Program
and NDIF, as set forth in Section 1
of Ordinance No. 56-94 passed June
13, 1994, and shall be in accordance
with the terms as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
File No. 1014-98-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00),
and shall. be paid from Fund No. 10
SF 501, RL 24283.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept

882

June 3, 1998
collateral as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file
referenced in Section 2 of this ordinance in order to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of such loan and to
deposit said monies in Fund No. 10
SF 502.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That, prior to entering
into any contract authorized herein,
the Director of Finance is required
to certify that un-appropriated funds
equal to the contract amount set
forth in Section 3 of this ordinance
have been collected by the City and
are available to be allocated to such
contract
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1015-98.
By Councilmen White and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources to
enter into contract with Applied
Benefits Research, Inc. dba COBRASERV for professional services
necessary to administer the City’s
COBRA program for the Department
of Personnel and Human Resources,
for a period of one year, with a oneyear option to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract with Applied
Benefits
Research,
Inc.
dba
COBRASERV for professional services necessary to administer the
City’s COBRA program on the basis
of its proposal dated March 19,
1998, for a period of one year, with
an option to renew for an additional one-year period, exercisable
by the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services shall be paid from Fund No.
01-04-02-0324, Request No. 23679.

June 3, 1998
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measiire and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative
Action
and
Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1016-98.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
request).
An emergency ordinance establishing the Mall Historic Landmark
District and repealing Ordinance
No. 2948-89 passed November 12,
1990. (Map Change No. 1977, Sheet
No. 1)
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the
designation of the Mall Historic
Landmark District as a landmark;
and
Whereas, a public hearing pursuant to Chapter No. 161.04 (b)(2) is
scheduled for June 11, 1998 to discuss the proposed designation of the
Mall Historic Landmark District as
a landmark, and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Mall
Historic Landmark District as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following area,
outlined in red on the map attached
hereto be and the same is hereby
designated THE MALL HISTORIC
LANDMARK DISTRICT:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of East 9th Street
and the center line of Lakeside
Avenue, N.E.; thence southwesterly
along said center line of Lakeside
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
a line two hundred and eighty-five
(285) feet northeast of the centerline of East 6th Street; thence southeasterly along said line which is
two hundred and eighty-five (285)
feet northeast of the centerline of
East 6th Street to the center line of
Rockwell
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
northeasterly along said center line
of Rockwell Avenue N.E. to its intersection
with
the
northwesterly
extension of a line located one hundred thirty-two (132) feet ten and
one half (10-1/2) inches southwest
of the southwesterly line of East 9th
Street; thence southeasterly along
said northwesterly extension and
along said line which is parallel to
and one hundred thirty-two (132)
feet ten and one half (10-1/2) inches southwest of said southwesterly
line of East 9th Street and along its
southeasterly extension to the cen-

The City Record
ter line of Superior Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along said center line of Superior Avenue, N.E. to
its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the center line
of East 2nd Street; thence northwesterly along said southeasterly
prolongation of and along said center line of East 2nd Street, and
along its northwesterly extension to
the center line of St. Clair Avenue,
N.E.; thence southwesterly along
said center line of St. Clair Avenue,
N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Ontario Street; thence
northwesterly along said center line
of Ontario Street to the center line
of Lakeside Avenue, N.E.; thence
southwesterly along said center line
of Lakeside Avenue, N.E. to the center line of West 3rd Street; thence
northwesterly along said center line
of West 3rd Street to its intersection
with the southwesterly extension of
the northwesterly line of land appropriated by the City of Cleveland
February 2, 1877, Docket “H”, No.
1161, Certified December 12, 1928
(said northwesterly line of said land
appropriated by the City of Cleveland being located approximately
four hundred seventy-five and fiftyfour
thousandths
(475.054)
feet
northwest of the northwesterly line
of Lakeside Avenue, N.E.); thence
northeasterly along said northwesterly line of said land appropriated
by the City of Cleveland to a point
located on the southwesterly line of
East 9th Street (said point being
located approximately four hundred
sixty-seven and four hundred ten
thousandths (467.410) feet northwest
of said northwesterly line of Lakeside Avenue), N.E. and along its
northeasterly extension to the center line of East 9th Street; thence
southeasterly along said center line
of East 9th Street to the place of
beginning.
Section 2. That The Mall Historic
Landmark District, which in its
entirety is a property having special
character or special historical or
aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City, State, or the
United States, be and it hereby is
designated a landmark pursuant to
Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 3. That the designation of
the area set forth in Section 1 hereof as the Mall Historic Landmark
District shall be noted on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the
office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for such purpose by the
City Planning Commission. Further,
a copy of the map attached hereto
shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Cleveland
Landmarks Commission. Ordinance
No. 2948-89 passed November 12, 1990
is hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.

883

61
FIRST READING
ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1017-98.
By Councilman Melena.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of lands on the
southerly side of Bridge Avenue,
N.W. between east of West 54 Street
and west of West 52 Street. (Map
Change No. 1975, Sheet No. 1)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area
Districts of lands bounded and
described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the northerly extension of a line
located thirty seven and five tenths
(37.5) feet east of the easterly line
of West 54 Street and the center line
of Bridge Avenue, N.W.; thence
easterly along said center line of
Bridge Avenue, N.W to its intersection with the northerly extension of
a line located one hundred thirty
two (132) feet west of the westerly
line of West 52 Street; thence
southerly along said northerly extension and along said line which is
parallel to and one hundred thirty
two (132) feet west of said westerly line of West 52 Street to its intersection with a line located approximately ninety and eight hundredths (90.08) feet south of the
southerly line of Bridge Avenue,
N.W; thence westerly along said line
which
is
parallel
to
and
approximately ninety and eight hundredths (90.08) feet south of said
southerly line of Bridge Avenue,
N.W. to its intersection with said
line located thirty seven and five
tenths (37.5) feet east of said easterly line of West 54 Street; thence
northerly along said line which is
parallel to and thirty seven and five
tenths (37.5) feet east of said easterly line of West 54 Street and along
its northerly extension to the place
of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same
are hereby changed to a Multi Family Use District and a ‘C’ Area District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1975, Sheet No. 1 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1018-98.
By Councilman Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Old (Relocated) Grayton Road.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Old (Relocated) Grayton
Road as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,

The City Record

62
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate all those portions of the following described real
property:
OLD(RELOCATED) GRAYTON
ROAD PROPOSED STREET
VACATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of that
part of Old Grayton Road (60.00 feet
wide), as shown by the Grayton
Road Alteration and Improvement
Plan No. M-4493 recorded in Volume
192, Page 41 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records, and sometimes known
as Relocated Grayton Road, lying
Northerly of the Northeasterly prolongation of the most Southerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Emerald Research Park Ltd. by
deed dated April 24, 1997, and
recorded in Volume 97-3626, Page 47
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
lying Southwesterly of the following
described line:
Commencing in the centerline of
Old Grayton Road as aforesaid at a
point of curvature therein at station
27+70.93; thence North 75°-08'-00"
East, and at right angles to said
centerline, 30.00 feet to the Easterly
right-of-way thereof; thence Northeasterly
along
said
right-of-way
being the arc of a curve deflecting
to the right, and having a radius of
5699.58 feet, a tangent of 109.74 feet,
a chord bearing North 23°-40'-04"
East, 219.44 feet, an arc distance of
219.45 feet to the principal place of
beginning
of
the
following
described line:
Thence Northeasterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 1530.08 feet,
a tangent of 149.81 feet, a chord
bearing
North
14°-37'-39"
East,
298.20 feet, an arc distance of 298.67
feet to the Westerly right-of-way of
Old Grayton Road as aforesaid and
the Northwesterly terminus of said
line.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds
of all the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its adoption
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 970-98.
By Councilmen Britt, Lewis and
Patmon.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Cleveland Clinic Run
on June 20, 1998, sponsored by Cleveland Clinic and Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this

Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Cleveland Clinic
Run, sponsored by Cleveland Clinic
and Hermes Race Systems, on June
20, 1998, starting at East 96th Street
to Euclid Ave., Euclid Ave. to East
105th Street, East 105th Street to
Martin Luther King Blvd., Martin
Luther King Blvd. to Ansel Rd. and
return the same route, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police or safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 971-98.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at rear of 2017 West
45th Street to Lakeside Blueprint
Incorporated.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 006-20-068
and 006-20-140, as more fully described in Section 2 below, to Lakeside Blueprint Incorporated.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 006-20-068
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being part of Sublot No. 4
in Taylor and Hoyts’ Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township

884

June 3, 1998
Lots Nos. 48 and 49 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
20
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and beginning on the Easterly line of West 45th Street (formerly Taylor Street) at the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 4;
thence
Northeasterly
along
the
Northerly line of said Sublot, 90 feet;
thence Southerly 37.73 feet to a point
which is distant Northerly at right
angles 39.52 feet from the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 4 and distant
Easterly at right angles 85.93 feet
from the Easterly line of West 45th
Street; thence Southwesterly 88.12
feet to a point in the Easterly line
of West 45th Street distant Northerly 20 feet from the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 4; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
West 45th Street 20 feet to the place
of beginning, according to a survey
of Charles W. Root, Civil Engineer,
made April, 1918, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 006-20-140
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 4 in Taylor and Hoyt’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 48 and
49 as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 1 of
Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the Southeasterly
corner of said Sublot No. 4; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 4, 46 feet to a point
distant Easterly 90 feet front the
Southwesterly
corner
of
said
Sublots; thence Northerly 77.47 feet
to a point in the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 4 distant Northeasterly 90 feet from the Northwesterly
corner thereof; thence Northeasterly
along the Northerly line of said
Sublot; 60.92 feet to the Northeasterly corner thereof; thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of said
Sublot 102.16 feet to the place of
beginning, according to the survey
of Charles W. Root, C.E. made April,
1918, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Zoning Ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

June 3, 1998
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 972-98.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Augustine Run on
June 6, 1998, sponsored by Hermes
Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the St. Augustine
Run, sponsored by Hermes Race Systems, on June 6, 1998, starting at
Detroit Ave. and W. 87th, Detroit to
Lake Ave., Lake Ave. to West Blvd.,
West Blvd. into Lakefront State
Park and return the same route, provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police or safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 977-98.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Finance to issue payment on Voucher No. 104155.
Whereas, Section 111.071 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the President of
Council on the behalf of City Council
to enter into contracts with professional consultants to provide assistance to the members of Council in
matters concerning the performance
of their official business; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
111.071, the President of Council
employed Watson & Watson to provide professional consulting services
in connection with issues relating to

The City Record
the U. S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development and the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby directed to issue
payment on Voucher No. 104155,
dated March 18, 1998, for professional consulting services related to
the U. S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development and the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That costs of said
voucher shall be charged against
Index Code 210005, SF 320.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 973-98.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit to
15520 Munn Rd., and repealing Res.
No. 376-98, objecting to said transfer
of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 15520 Munn Rd., by
Res. No. 376-98, adopted March 2,
1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 15520 Munn Rd., be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 376-98, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

885

63
Res. No. 974-98.
By Councilmen Dolan, Patmon,
Gordon, Melena, Moran, Westbrook,
Jackson, Zone, Lewis, Cimperman,
Sweeney, Cintron, White, Britt, Willis, Polensek, Rybka, Coats, Robinson, Johnson and Jones.
An emergency resolution requesting that the FirstEnergy Corporation withdraw recently issued layoff
notices to its employees, and return
to the bargaining table to reach a
fair labor agreement.
Whereas, the FirstEnergy Corporation’s decision to terminate negotiations with the Utility Workers
Union of America, Local 270 and
implement a contract is contrary to
the idea of fairness to workers and
the federally recognized collective
bargaining process; and
Whereas, the elimination of 485
jobs by the FirstEnergy Corporation,
will result in lower electric service
levels for Cleveland residents; and
Whereas, the reduction in service
caused as a result of these layoffs
could result in potentially dangerous delays in the restoration of electric power to Cleveland residents in
the event of an emergency; and
Whereas, the reduction in service
caused as a result of these layoffs
may result in the FirstEnergy Corporation’s noncompliance with minimum
electric
service
standards
established by the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio; and
Whereas, the elimination of these
positions will unfairly harm working families and the Cleveland community; and
Whereas,
the
Utility
Workers
Union of America, Local 270, has
sought an immediate court injunction to prevent the elimination of
these positions and has sought relief
from the National Labor Relations
Board;
Now, therefore, be it resolved by
the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the FirstEnergy
Corporation
should
immediately
withdraw all job layoff notices
issued to its employees as part of
the planned elimination of 485 jobs
announced on Wednesday, May 27,
1998.
Section 2. That the FirstEnergy
Corporation should return to the bargaining table with the Utility Workers Union of America, Local 270, in
order to reach a fair labor agreement in accordance with federally
recognized labor negotiation processes.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit certified copies of this resolution to Anthony Alexander, President of the FirstEnergy Corporation, Dan DiNicola, Spokesman for
FirstEnergy Corporation, John Ryan,
President of the Cleveland AFL-CIO,
and David Kotecki, President of the
Utilities Workers Union of America,
Local 270.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

64
Res. No. 975-98.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 3125 E. 65th St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1783507 Idell Cowan, DBA
All My Children Mini Mart, 3125 E.
65th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44127; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1783507, Idell Cowan,
DBA All My Children Mini Mart,
3125 E. 65th St., Cleveland, Ohio,
44127 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 976-98.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 3661
E. 93rd St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6418414, 93rd Aetna Food Market
Inc., DBA 93rd Aetna Food Market,
3661 E. 93rd St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, to Permit No.
0072349, Aetfood Inc., DBA Aetna
Food Market, 3661 E. 93rd St., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44105; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6418414, 93rd Aetna Food Market
Inc., DBA 93rd Aetna Food Market,
3661 E. 93rd St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, to Permit No.
0072349, Aetfood Inc., DBA Aetna
Food Market, 3661 E. 93rd St., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

886

June 3, 1998
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 82-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Health to enter into contract
with Cuyahoga Community College
to provide Ohio Peace Officer Training to comply with State minimum
standards for jails for not to exceed
forty (40) students.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 317-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1646-97,
passed October 20, 1997, relating to
a grant from the Alcohol and Drug
Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County for the 1998 Drug Prevention, Treatment and Intervention
Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 471-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of reclamite
asphalt rejuvenating agent, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Service; Recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance, when, amended as follows:
1. Strike the title and Section 1 in
their entirety, and insert, respectively, in lieu thereof the following:
“An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to enter into a
requirement contract without competitive
bidding
with
Pavement
Technology, Inc., for the purchase of
labor and materials necessary to
apply reclamite asphalt rejuvenating agent on various City streets,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Pavement Technology, Inc. Therefore, the Director of Public Service
is hereby authorized and directed to
make a written requirement contract for the period of one year with
said Pavement Technology, Inc. for
the labor and materials necessary to
apply reclamite asphalt rejuvenating agent on various City streets, to

June 3, 1998
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit
basis
for
the
Division
of
Streets, Department of Public Service.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 478-98.
By Mayor White and Councilmen
Willis, Jackson, Rybka and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor and the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Economic Development to enter
into a Purchase Agreement with
OfficeMax, Inc. for approximately
34.4 acres of City-owned property
located in the Village of Highland
Hills.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Community and Economic Development, City
Planning, Finance; when, amended
as follows:
1. In the title, fifth line, strike
“OfficeMax, Inc.” and insert “the
Cleveland Cuyahoga County Port
Authority”.
2. In the third Whereas clause,
first line, strike “OfficeMax, Inc.”
and insert “the Cleveland Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority
(“Port
Authority”)”.
3. In the third Whereas clause,
second line, after “building” insert
“for OfficeMax, Inc. (“OfficeMax”)”.
4. In the fourth Whereas clause,
first line, after “Village” strike the
comma and insert “to”.
5. In the fifth Whereas clause,
first line, strike “OfficeMax, Inc.,”
and insert “Port Authority”.
6. In Section 1, second line, strike
“1834” and insert “183”.
7. In Section 1, fourth and fifth
lines, strike “OfficeMax, Inc.,” and
insert “Port Authority”.
8. In Section 1, fifth line, after
“building” insert “to be leased to
OfficeMax”.
9. In Section 1, last line, strike
“(Insert Legal Description)” and
insert:
“Lig ht Ind ustrial Pa rcel No. 7
(OfficeMax Site)
Situated in the Village of Highland Hills, the County of Cuyahoga
and the State of Ohio and known as
being all of Light Industrial Parcel
No. 7, to be recorded in the re-subdivision of the Cleveland Enterprise
Park, Phase 1, Platbook Volume
,
Page
, of the Cuyahoga County
Record of Plats and also being a
part of Original Lot No’s. 66, 67, 76
and 77 in the Original Warrensville
Township and more fully described
as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin monument found S 66 degrees 52' 38" W,
39.22 feet from the intersection of
the centerline of Harvard Avenue
(width varies) and the centerline of
Re-located Millcreek Boulevard (85
feet wide);
Thence along the centerline of
said Harvard Ave., S 66 degrees 50'
47" W, 33.28 feet to a point; Thence
S 23 degrees 09' 13" E, 50.00 feet to
a point on the right-of-way line of
said Harvard Ave. and the true
place of beginning;

The City Record
Thence following a curve to the
right, having a central angle of 90
degrees 00' 00", a radius of 30.00
feet, a chord distance of 42.43 feet
and a chord bearing of S 68 degrees
09' 13" E, the arc distance of 47.12
feet to a point and the westerly
right-of-way line of said relocated
Millcreek Blvd.;
Thence continuing along the westerly right-of-way line of said relocated Millcreek Blvd., S 23 degrees
09' 13" E, 422.68 feet to a point of
curve;
Thence following a curve to the
left, having a central angle of 38
degrees 52' 29", a radius of 542.50
feet, a chord distance of 361.06 feet
and a chord bearing of S 42 degrees
35' 27" E, the arc distance of 368.08
feet to a point;
Thence S 17 degrees 47' 38" W,
53.56 feet to a point;
Thence S 17 degrees 47' 32" W,
546.49 feet to a point;
Thence S 81 degrees 11' 19" W,
193.32 feet to a point;
Thence S 56 degrees 56' 04" W,
781.57 feet to a point; and the easterly right-of-way line of Northfield
Avenue (100 feet wide);
Thence
continuing
along
said
right-of-way following a curve to
the right, having a central angle of
28 degrees 05' 34", a radius of
2,814.79 feet, a chord distance of
1,366.34 feet and a chord bearing of
No 14 degrees 21' 12" W, the arc distance of 1,380.12 feet to a point;
Thence
continuing
along
said
right-of-way line, N 00 degrees 18'
25" W, 37.63 feet to a point of curve;
Thence following a curve to the
right, having a central angle of 81
degrees 09' 41", a radius of 30.00
feet, a chord distance of 39.03 feet
and a chord bearing of N 40 degrees
16' 25" E, the arc distance of 42.50
feet to a point and the southerly
right-of-way line of said Harvard
Ave.,
Thence easterly continuing along
said Harvard Ave. right-of-way line
following a curve to the left, having
a central angle of 10 degrees 15'
29", a radius of 1,949.86 feet, a chord
distance of 348.63 feet and a chord
bearing of N 75 degrees 43' 31" E,
the arc distance of 349.10 feet to a
point of spiral curve;
Thence continuing along said Harvard Ave. right-of-way line following a spiral curve to the left, having a central angle of 03 degrees 45'
00", a chord distance of 252.57 feet
and a chord bearing of N 68 degrees
06' 10" E, the length of 252.57 feet
to a point;
Thence N 66 degrees 50' 47" E,
94.78 feet to a point;
Thence N 78 degrees 09' 23" E
50.99 feet to a point;
Thence N 66 degrees 50' 47" E,
200.00 feet to a point and the place
of beginning and containing 34.000
acres, more or less, as surveyed by
Ralph C. Tyler, Registered Surveyor
No. 4236, State of Ohio, in May 1995,
but subject to all legal roads, highways and easements of record.
The basis of bearing for this
description is an assumed meridian
and used to denote angular measurements only.”.
10. In Section 2, fourth line, after
“($2,293,722.00),” insert “which this
Council determines to be the fair
market value of the Sale Parcel”.
11. In Section 3, first line, strike
“OfficeMax, Inc.” and insert “Port
Authority”.
12. In Section 5, second line, strike
“OfficeMax, Inc.” and insert “Port
Authority”.

887

65
13. In Section 5, third line, after
“building” insert “to be leased to
OfficeMax”; and at the end of Section 5 add the following: “A copy of
the
executed
lease
agreement
between OfficeMax and the Port
Authority shall be delivered to the
Clerk of Council and placed in File
No. 478-98-A. The Project Agreement
shall also provide that if at the end
of the Lease Agreement between
OfficeMax and the Port Authority,
OfficeMax does not exercise its
option to purchase the property and
the Port Authority decides to sell
the property to another party, the
City shall have the right of first
refusal to purchase the property.
The City’s right of first refusal shall
expire 180 days after notice of the
opportunity by the Port Authority.”.
14. Strike Section 7 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 7. The Project Agreement
shall require OfficeMax, as the
future tenant, to use best efforts,
consisting of their cooperation with
programs offered by the City’s
Human Resources Division, subject
to economic restraints of the project
and the right of OfficeMax to make
final
employment
decisions,
to
achieve objectives related to construction and employment for City
economic development initiatives, to
include awarding 30% of construction contracts and supplier purchase
orders to minority-owned enterprises; awarding 10% of construction
contracts
and
supplier
purchase
orders to female-owned enterprises;
hiring minorities for 16.1% of construction jobs; hiring women for
6.9% of construction jobs; hiring
minorities for 33% of the jobs created by the project; hiring Cleveland
residents for 50% of construction
jobs; and hiring Cleveland residents
for 50% of all jobs created by the
project. In addition, OfficeMax shall
maintain neutrality with respect to
any organizing campaign or any
decision by the employees whether
to join or be represented by any
labor organization. However, neutrality shall not be construed to
interfere with or restrict OfficeMax
from exercising its rights to fairly
represent its position in communicating with its employees.”.
15. Insert a new Section 8 to read
as follows:
“Section 8. That the Project Agreement shall provide that site plans
for the development showing buildings, roadway alignments and the
location of the GCRTA Blue Line
Rapid Transit shall be submitted to
the City Planning Commission for
review and approval.”.
16. Renumber existing Sections 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16, respectively, to new “Section 9”, “Section
10”, “Section 11”, “Section 12”, “Section 13”, “Section 14”, “Section 15”,
“Section 16”, and “Section 17”.
17. In existing Section 9, third
line, strike “OfficeMax, Inc.” and
insert “Port Authority”.
18. In existing Section 15, strike
the last line of the section in its
entirety and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
“Fund No. 10 SF 501.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 1.
Those voting yea were Councilmen:
Britt,
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Lewis, Moran, Patmon,
Robinson, Rybka, Sweeney, Willis,
Zone.

66
Those voting nay: Councilman
Polensek.
Absent: Councilmen Melena, Westbrook, and White.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 682-98.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of traffic control signal lamps, for the Division of
Traffic Engineering and Parking,
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 683-98.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of traffic signal and sign material and equipment, for the Division of Traffic
Engineering and Parking, Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 699-98.
By
Councilmen
Melena,
Westbrook, Zone, Sweeney, Jackson and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency for the EPA
Brownfields Economic Development
Initiative
Brownfield
Assessment
Demonstration Pilot Program, and
to enter into contract with WIRENet to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 758-98.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to paint center
and lane lines on City streets, for
the Division of Traffic Engineering
and Parking, Department of Public
Safety, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance, when, amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 8 and
9 in their entirety, and insert in lieu
thereof “of Public Safety”.
2. In Section 1, line 4 and in line
13, strike “two (2) years” and insert
in lieu thereof in both places “one
year”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of

The City Record
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 759-98.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of reflective
sheeting and sign posts, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering and
Parking, Department of Public Safety, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance, when, amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7 and
8 in their entirety, and insert in lieu
thereof “of Public Safety”.
2. In Section 1, line 4 and in lines
12 and 13, strike “two (2) years” and
insert in lieu thereof in both places
“one year”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 760-98.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement
contract
of
traffic
paint, thermoplastic material and
reflective glass beads, for the Division of Traffic Engineering and
Parking, Department of Public Safety, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance; when, amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7 and
8 in their entirety, and insert in lieu
thereof “Parking, Department of
Public Safety.”.
2. In Section 1, line 4 and in line
13, strike “two (2) years” and insert
in lieu thereof in both places “one
year”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 819-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of not to exceed two
portable lead detectors, for the Division of Environment, Department of
Public Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 857-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 16 and 41 of Ordinance No.
436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as may
be amended by Ordinance No. 147497, passed October 13, 1997, relating
to compensation for various classifications.

888

June 3, 1998
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 1661-97.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate that part
of Webster Avenue S.E.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 563-98.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of East 12th Street and Webster
Avenue S.E.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning; Recommended by Committee on
Finance, when, amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 2, strike “a
portion of”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final adoption.
Res. No. 625-98.
By Councilman Cintron (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of West 30th Street and Keene Court
S.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
MOTION
By Councilman Coats, seconded by
Councilman Polensek and unanimously carried that the absence of
Councilman
Timothy
J.
Melena,
Council President Jay Westbrook,
and Councilman Robert J. White, be
and is hereby authorized.
The Council adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
to meet on Monday, June 8, 1998 at
7:00 p.m.

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

June 3, 1998
BOARD OF CONTROL
May 27, 1998
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 27, 1998,
at 11:00 a.m., with Mayor White presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Directors
Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Absent: Director Staib.
Others: William A. Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Laura A. Williams, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 366-98.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that pursuant to Section 101 of the Charter,
Section 181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and
Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the
Board of Control on November 26,
1952, the report of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies for the
sale of scrap, personal property, and
by-products during the month of
April,
1998
in
the
amount
of
$7,049.38, hereto attached and made
a part hereof, is hereby received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 367-98.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on April 9, 1998 for
Computer Related Hardware Equipment (all items) for the Division of
various divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1471-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on October 13,
1997 be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 368-98.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that the
bid of The Wackenhut Corporation
for
an
estimated
quantity
of
Unarmed,
Uniformed
Security
Guard Services (all items) for the
Division of various divisions of
City Government, Department of
Finance, for the period of two (2)
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
May 13, 1998, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 507-98,
passed April 27, 1998, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would
amount
to
Six
Hundred
Fifty-Seven Thousand Five Hundred
and
00/100
Dollars

($657,500.00), (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Finance is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 12524
16618
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of ThirtyThree Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($33,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 369-98.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on April 22, 1998 for
Lease or Rental of One (1) High
Performance Production Printer for
the Division of Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 423-98, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on March 23,
1998 be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 370-98.
By Director Konicek.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Omnicor Truck Centers, Inc.
for the following: One (1) Boom
Truck for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, received on the
13th day of March 1998, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
2557-89, passed November 13, 1989,
which on the basis of the order
quantities
would
amount
to
$177,268.00 is hereby approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into contract
for such items.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 371-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on July 9, 1997 for
System Expansion C-15 Transmis-

889

67
sion Line To Pearl Road, all items,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1071-93, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 7, 1993, be and the same are
hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 372-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of East Jordan
Iron Works, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of manhole covers and
parts (items 1-13) for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
19th day of March, 1998, pursuant to
the authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland.
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Forty Eight Thousand Eight Hundred
Thirty
Dollars
($48,830.00),
(Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter
into requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 02089
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 373-98.
By Acting Director Sheffield-McClain.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on March 4, 1998 for
software for Computerized Maintenance Management System for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport, Department
of Port Control, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1275-97,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on September 22, 1997
be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

68
Resolution No. 374-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Lift-All, Division of Hydra-Tech,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
one
(1)
cab
and
chassis
with
body/bucket and additional equipment (item #2) for various Divisions of City Government, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract
received on April 17, 1998, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1113-97, passed July 16, 1997, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to approximately One Hundred Seventeen Thousand Nine Hundred Eighty Five and
no/100 Dollars ($117,985.00), (Net),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 19647
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Seventeen Thousand Nine
Hundred Eighty Five and no/100
Dollars ($117,985.00.)
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 375-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of cab and
chassis with body and crew cab and
chassis with dump body (15,000
GVW) (Items 1 and 2) for various
Divisions
of
City
Government,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on April 17, 1998, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1113-98, passed July 16, 1997,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to approximately One Hundred Fifty Seven
Thousand One Hundred Eleven and
no/100 Dollars ($157,111.00), (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No.

19645 $31,435
19648 $83,784
19649 $41,892
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Fifty Seven Thousand One

The City Record
Hundred Eleven and no/100 Dollars
($157,111.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor Valley
Ford Truck Sales, Inc., for the purchase of cab and chassis with body
and crew cab and chassis with dump
body (15,000 GVW) (items 1 and 2),
is hereby approved:
Logical Services
MBE — $850.00/unit
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 376-98.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Altec Industries, Inc. for an estimated quantity of two (2) cab and
chassis with chip dump body/bucket and additional equipment (Item
#1) for various Divisions of City
Government, Department of Public
Service, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract received on
April 17, 1998, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1113-97,
passed July 16, 1997, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would
amount
to
approximately
Two Hundred Six Thousand Three
Hundred Seventy Six and no/100
Dollars ($206,376.00), (Net 30 Days),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 19646
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Hundred Six Thousand Three Hundred Seventy Six and no/100 Dollars
($206,376.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 377-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,

890

June 3, 1998
the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization
Program
in
accordance with the provision of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 002-15-018 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 476-98
passed May 11, 1998 authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network Incorporated has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 476-98 passed May 11,
1998 by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Cleveland Housing Network Incorporated for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00215-018, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 378-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-28-081, 118-28017, 118-28-018, 118-28-019 and 118-28020 under said Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 323-98
passed May 11, 1998 authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
St.
Paul
AME
Zion
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 323-98 passed May
11, 1998 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with St. Paul AME Zion Church for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-28-081, 11828-017, 118-28-018, 118-28-019 and 11828-020, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.

June 3, 1998
Be it further resolved that the
consideration
for
said
parcels
shall be $100.00 (each), which
amount is hereby determined to be
not less than the fair market value
of said parcels for uses in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 379-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-28-021 and
118-28-022 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 867-98
passed May 11, 1998 authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
St.
Paul
AME
Zion
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 867-98 passed May 11,
1998 by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
St. Paul AME Zion Church for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 118-28-021 and 118-28-022,
as described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration
for
said
parcels
shall be $100.00 (each), which
amount is hereby determined to be
not less than the fair market value
of said parcels for uses in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 380-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 123-19-117 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2153-97
passed April 6, 1998 authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and

The City Record
Whereas, Lucille Liuzzo, Ronald
Liuzzo, Richard Liuzzo and Dennis
Liuzzo have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 2153-97 passed
April 4, 1998 by the Cleveland City
Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an official deed for
and on behalf of the City of Cleveland with Lucille Liuzzo, Ronald
Liuzzo, Richard Liuzzo and Dennis
Liuzzo for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 123-19-117,
as described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 381-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 008-04-073 located at 2989 West
12th Street in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Sharon Johnson, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Sharon Johnson for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
008-04-073
located at 2989 West 12th Street, in
accordance with the Land Reuti-

891

69
lization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 382-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 123-23-077 located at 5220 McBride Avenue in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Rosalind
McAllister,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Rosalind
McAllister for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12323-077 located at 5220 McBride Avenue, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

70
Resolution No. 383-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-14-108 located at 1258 East
58th Street in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Edward
J.
Buehner,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Edward J.
Buehner for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10414-108 located at 1258 East 58th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 384-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 131-23-077 located at 5017 Hamm
Avenue in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have

The City Record
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or
abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Sharon
and
Ronald
Dempsey, abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Sharon and
Ronald Dempsey for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 131-23-077 located at 5017 Hamm
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 385-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 108-05-090 located at 576 East
99th Street in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Oscar Gray Davis and
Mary Syvenia Davis, abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,

892

June 3, 1998
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Oscar Gray
Davis and Mary Syvenia Davis for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 108-05-090 located at
576 East 99th Street, in accordance
with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 386-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 004-19-035 and 004-19-036 located
at 2495 and 2499 West 7th Street in
Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, abutting/adjacent
landowner, has proposed to the City
to
purchase
and
develop
said
parcels; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcels are either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Greater
Cleveland Habitat for Humanity for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 004-19-035 and 00419-036 located at 2495 and 2499 West
7th Street, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.

June 3, 1998
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 (each), which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the Fair Market value of said
parcels for uses in accordance with
said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 387-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 002-32-074 located at 5500 Courtland Court in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Michael McBride, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Michael
McBride for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00232-074 located at 5500 Courtland
Court, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$330.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 388-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reuti-

The City Record
lization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 115-30-126 located at 15340 Yorick
Avenue, N.E. in Ward 11; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Kelly A. Cofield, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 11 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Kelly A.
Cofield for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 115-30-126
located at 15340 Yorick Avenue,
N.E., in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 389-98.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-19-027 located at 3422 West
50th Street in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Luther W. Ratliff and
Donna M. Ratliff, abutting/adjacent

893

71
landowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Luther W.
Ratliff and Donna M. Ratlilff for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 016-19-027 located at 3422
West 50th Street, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Summers, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Sheffield-McClain, Director
Guzman,
Acting
Director
Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hamilton, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates
for
original
entrance
positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

The City Record

72
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JUNE15, 1998
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 98-86: 3230-34 Euclid
Avenue
Emile Daher and Hayat Daher,
owners, and Downtown Office Inc.
c/o Natalie Modic and Robert Modic,
tenant,
appeals
under
Sections
329.01(e) and 329.02(d) from the violation notice dated April 17, 1998 from
the Division of Building and Housing
relative to the use as an Adult
Cabaret of the premises located in a
General Retail District at 3230-34
Euclid Avenue and not in conformance with the provisions of Section
347.07 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-95: 6605 Clark Avenue, S.W.
1799-1873 Beall Avenue Company
Inc. c/o Stuart Graines, appeals
under
Sections
329.10(e)
and
329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances
from the Violation Notice dated
April 13, 1998 from the Division of
Building and Housing relative to
the premises located in a SemiIndustry District and known as 6605
Clark Avenue for violation items
numbered 14 through 18 relative to
Sections 327.02, 349.07 and 349.08 of
the Codified Ordinances
Calendar No. 98-96: 5163 Broadway,
a.k.a. 5303 McBride Ave., S.E.
St. Michael’s Hospital, owner, and
Community Assessment Foundation,
tenant, c/o Dan Cratcha and Roxanne Wallace, appeals to change
use
of
the
former
nursing
school/dormitory to a 45 bed correctional halfway house the 90' x 180'
5-story masonry “L” shaped school
and
dormitory
building
on
the
acreage parcel located in a General
Retail District and bounded by
Broadway, Fowler Ave., Hector Ave.
and McBride Ave. at 5303 McBride
Ave. and also occupied by several
buildings of the St. Michael Hospital Campus, known as 5163 Broadway; said change of use being subject to the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval for a Certificate of Occupancy
as
required
by
Section
347.15(b)(c) and said use to be less
than 500' to residential districts and
church uses contrary to the provisions of Section 347.15(d)(1) and not
in conformance with the provisions
of
Section
347.15(d)(2)
which
require that no more than two correctional halfway house facilities
shall be located in any one Police
District and this proposed use would
increase that number to four and
said facility providing 14 off-street
parking spaces instead of the 39
spaces required by Section 347.15(g)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-97: 8618 Carnegie
Ave., S.E.
Cleveland
Clinic
Foundation,
owner, c/o Brian Smith and Vienna
Distributing Co. c/o Regan Schalect,
tenant, to erect a 61' x 85' one-story
masonry
wholesale
food
dealer
building with a 37' x 21' one-story
truck dock and a 34 car accessory
off-street parking lot all on a 141'
x 208' irregular shaped parcel located in a General Retail Business District and to be known as 8618
Carnegie Ave.; said use as a wholesale food dealer being contrary to
the retail limitations of Section
343.11 and not in conformance with

the landscaping provisions of Section 352.10 and the east driveway
not being 15' from the property line
as required by Section 343.18(c) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-99: 7027 St. Clair
Ave., N.E.
Anna Chambers, owner, and Rick’s
Trading Post Inc. c/o Kevin Chambers, tenant, to change use to a used
car sales lot and office the 36' x 39'
one-story building all on the 42' x
181' irregular shaped lot located in
a Local Retail District at 7027 St.
Clair Ave.; said use being contrary
to the local retail limitations regulated by Section 343.01 and said lot
not being 60' in width as required
for used car sales by Section 347.11
of the Codified Ordinances.
REHEARING GRANTED
ON DECEMBER 1, 1997
10:30 A. M.
Calendar No. 97-232: 4164 East 97th
Street
Christopher Brown, owner, appeals to change use to a group home
(adult care facility) for a maximum
of six adults the 24' x 40' two-story
frame one-family dwelling house on
a 40' x 140' lot located in a TwoFamily District at 4164 East 97th
Street; said use being contrary to
the residence limitations of Section
337.03 and the north side yard being
3' instead of 8' in width as required
by Section 357.09 and not in compliance with the the off-street parking
requirements of Sections 349.03 and
349.04 and the landscaping requirements of Section 352.11 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JUNE 1, 1998
At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Tuesday, May 26,
1998, the following appeals were
heard by the Board, and, on Monday,
June 1, 1998 were decided by the
Board.
The following appeals were Granted:
Calendar No. 98-71: 4742 West 130th
Street
Mostafa and Mahboubeh Rahmani
owners, and Sonny’s Auto Sales Inc.
c/o Louis Kubat, tenant, appealed to
change an existing 20' x 30' onestory masonry building located in a
General Retail Business District.
(Granted conditionally).
Calendar No. 98-94: 1300 West 9th
Street
Otis
Associates
Ltd.
c/o
Bob
Raines, owner, to change use to 249
dwelling units on the upper levels,
retail and or restaurants at grade
levels and approximately a 227 car
indoor parking on the lower levels.
The following appeal was Postponed to June 15, 1998.
Calendar No. 98-93: 3525 Scranton
Road, S.W. and 1901 Eglindale
Avenue, S.W.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

894

June 3, 1998
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
May 27, 1998
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action the subject meeting is given
for publication in The City Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-395-97.
RE: Continuance of Appeal of
Paul P. Arnold, Owner of the Property located on the premises known
as 2311-15 East 55th Street from a 72
HOUR CONDEMNATION NOTICE —
PUBLIC NUISANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated November 25,
1997, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety days (90 das.) in
which to abate the violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Division of Building and
Housing for supervision and further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket L-5-98.
RE: Appeal of Ronald Hebebrand,
from a LETTER OF DENIAL FOR
RENEWAL OF ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR LICENSE of the Commissioner of the Division of Assessments & Licenses dated April 5,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit Mr.
Hebebrand to renew his ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR LICENSE without retaking the test, but with payment of the late filing fees. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-29-98.
RE: Appeal of John W. Hickey,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 3792-94 West
25th Street (aka 2500-2600 Garden
Avenue) from NOTICES OF VIOLATION of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated January 12, 16, and 23, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
Docket A-29-98 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-49-98.
RE: Appeal of Merlene Atwater
Allen, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 11223-25

The City Record

June 3, 1998
St. Clair Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated February 23,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s
CONDEMNATION
ORDER and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting
the Appellant one month (1 mo.) in
which to obtain permits and abate
the violations. Upon passage of this
motion, this matter shall be REMANDED to the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing at the end of that time for
supervision
and
further
action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-50-98.
RE: Appeal of Charles C. Pearson,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 6425 Grand
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated February 26, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request on the
basis of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, and to REMAND the property at 6425 Grand
Avenue at this time to the Division
of Building and Housing for further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Williams and seconded by
Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-51-98.
RE: Appeal of Midland Mortgage
Co., Mortgagee of the Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 3495 West 62nd Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MS & GARAGE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated January 22,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MS & GARAGE and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting the Appellant one
month (1 mo.) in which to obtain
permits and abate the violations, the
property is to be maintained boarded and secured and the grounds
debris free during that period of
time. Upon passage of this motion,
this matter shall be REMANDED to
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing at the end of
that time for supervision and further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.

Docket A-52-98.
RE: Appeal of Chase Mortgage
Services, Mortgagee of the Residential Property located on the
premises known as 2097 West 89th
Street from a NUISANCE ABATEMENT of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated February 23, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two months (2 mos.) in
which to obtain permits and abate
the violations, the property must
remain boarded and secured and the
grounds debris free at this time; and
to REMAND the property at 2097
West 89th Street to the Division of
Building and Housing for further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-55-98.
RE: Appeal of Josephine Walker,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
1917 East 75th Street from a LETTER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated March 20, 1998, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 1917 East 75th Street to
the Division of Building and Housing for further action as required.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-59-98.
RE:
Appeal
of
Herbert
Kay,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 7300 Clark
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of the Commissioner of the Division of Fire
dated March 10, 1998, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
No action this date; the Docket
will be rescheduled for June 10,
1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-64-98.
RE: Appeal of John McPherson,
Owner of the Property located on
the
premises
known
as
10919
Franklin Boulevard from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of
the Chief of the Division of Fire
dated March 27, 1998, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
No action this date; the Docket
will be rescheduled for June 24,
1998.

895

73
Docket A-68-98.
RE: Appeal of Judy Hlas, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 3303 Superior
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/RESIDENTIAL
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated March 18, 1998, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
No action this date; the Docket
will be rescheduled for June 24,
1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-76-98.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Container Recycling Corp., Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 9520 Richmond Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE CODE of the Chief of the Division of Fire dated March 24, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action this date; the Docket
will be rescheduled for June 24,
1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-85-98.
RE: Appeal of Keith R. Kunath,
Owner of the Residential Property
and
Proposed
Swimming
Pool
located on the premises known as
12813
Mulligan
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated May 11,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) requirement and permit the pool to be
installed as indicated on the drawings, approximately five feet (5 ft.)
from the adjacent and rear property
lines; the Appellant is to return with
a letter indicating acceptance of the
pool from the rear property owner,
and to waive the late filing fees.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Williams and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-88-98.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Housing
Network, Owner of the Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 7618 New York Avenue
from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated May 13, 1998, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s
appeal
request
and
require that the windows be properly sized in accordance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Williams and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.

The City Record

74
Docket A-89-98.
RE: Appeal of Sue E. Zakaib,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 11108 Primrose Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — ELECTRICAL of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated May 8,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date; the Docket
will be rescheduled for June 10,
1998.

ment and permit the pool to be
installed as indicated on the drawings, approximately three feet (3
ft.) from the adjacent property line,
with the provision that a letter be
received by the Board indicating
that the adjacent property owner
does not object to the location of the
pool. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-90-98.
RE: Appeal of Francis C. Gardner,
Owner of the Residential Property
and Proposed Swimming Pool located on the premises known as 7604
Halle Avenue from a NOTICE OF
NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated May 15, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) requirement and permit the pool to be
installed as indicated on the drawings, approximately seven feet (7
ft.) and nine feet (9 ft.) from the
adjacent properties, noting the letters of concurrence from the adjacent neighbors. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-91-98.
RE: Appeal of Denise Metzel Chipgus, Owner of the Residential Property and Proposed Swimming Pool
located on the premises known as
3444
West
98th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated May 15,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) requirement and permit the pool to be
installed as indicated on the drawings, approximately six feet (6 ft.)
from the adjacent neighbor, noting
the letter of concurrence of the
neighbor.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Sullivan and seconded
by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

*

*

*

Docket A-92-98.
RE: Appeal of Kenneth Wayne,
Owner of the Residential Property
and Proposed Swimming Pool located on the premises known as 5205
Behrwald Avenue from a NOTICE
OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated May 15, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) require-

Docket A-93-98.
RE: Appeal of Nolasco Housing
Corp., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 6903
Father Caruso Drive from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — ELECTRICAL of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated May 5,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
violations were accurate, and that
the appeal was well-founded; that
the Codified Ordinances do not visualize two thousand square feet in a
four-story as a reason for applying
conduit: a motion is in order to
approve the non-metallic sheet cable
installation as requested. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan
and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-332-97.
Muhammad R. Abdullah — 2615
East 61st Street: In view of the inactivity on the abatement of the violations, a motion is in order at this
time
to
DENY
the
Appellant’s
request for “Extension of Time” and
to REMAND the property at 2615
East 61st Street to the Division of
Building and Housing for further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-7-98.
First Bank National Assoc. — 997
East 74th Street/Front: A motion is
in order at this time to grant the
Appellant a two month (2 mos.)
“Extension of Time” in which to
abate the violations, and to REMAND the property at 997 East 74th
Street/Front to the Division of Building and Housing for supervision and
further action, with the understanding that continuances may be granted by the Division of Building and
Housing based upon the appearance
of the property. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Williams for Approval and Adoption

896

June 3, 1998
of the Resolution as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-5-98—Margaret L. White.
A-45-98—Golden Bullion Enterprises
Inc.
A-53-98—DeVonn Burwell.
A-58-98—Green Tree Financial Servicing Corp.
A-60-98—Lomack J. Gray.
A-61-98—Shirley M. Wise.
A-62-98—Cheryl J. Hudson.
A-63-98—Cleveland Clinic Foundation.
A-67-98—Albert Forney.
A-75-98—Bob Whorley.
A-81-98—City of Cleveland (Public
Utilities Building).
A-82-98—Edward Lymer.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Mr. Sullivan. Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval of the Minutes as presented by the Secretary
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland:
May 13, 1998
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Mr. Sullivan. Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard Norris, last known address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment
2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, June 10, 1998
1:00 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the Council Committee on City Planning will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes
Cotner Committee Room 217, City
Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Wednesday,
June 10, 1998, at 1:00 P.M., to consider the following ordinances now
pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1756-96.
By Councilmen Jackson, Britt and
Paulenske.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Midtown
Business
Revitalization
District (BRD) and to repeal Ordi-

June 3, 1998
nance No. 965-95 passed June 12,
1995. (Map Change No. 1915, Sheet
Nos. 5 & 4).
Ord. No. 1868-97.
By Councilman Britt.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Fairhill Village Historic Landmark
District. (Map Change No. 19617
Sheet No. 9).
Ord. No. 160-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on the northeasterly side of Ivanhoe Road, N.E.
between Yorick Avenue, N.E. and
south of Mandalay Avenue, N.E.
(Map Change No. 1968, Sheet No. 7).
Ord. No. 161-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An ordinance to change the Use,
and Area Districts of lands on the
westerly side of East 200 Street
from Mohican Avenue, N.E., north to
City Line. (Map Change No. 1967,
Sheet No. 7).
Ord. No. 250-98.
By Councilman Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of lands on the
easterly side of West 130 Street
between Matherson Avenue, S.W.
and
Leeila
Avenue,
S.W.
(Map
Change No. 1970, Sheet No. 12).
Ord. No. 330-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on both sides of
Lakeport Road, N.E. to Lakeshore
Boulevard, N.E. approximately 345.80'
southwest of Brazil Road, N.E. (Map
Change No 1969, Sheet No. 7).
Ord. No. 332-98.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Lorain Station Historic Landmark
District. (Map Change No. 1971,
Sheets Nos. 1 & 2).
Ord. No. 333-98.
By Councilmen Zone and Westbrook.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
West 117 Street/Berea Road Business Revitalization District. (BRD)
(Map Change No. 1946, Sheets Nos. 1
& 2).
Ord. No. 622-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An ordinance to amend Section 1
of Ordinance No. 2106-97 passed February 9, 1998 relating to changing
the Use and Height Districts of
lands between South Waterloo Road,
N.E. and the New York Central Railroad and between Neff Road, N.E.
and East 200 Street. (Map Change
No. 1966, Sheet No. 7).
Ord. No. 623-98.
By Councilman Rybka.
An ordinance to amend Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 2107-97 passed February 9, 1998 relating to changing the
Use Area of lands on the westerly
side of East 78 Street between Aetna
Road, S.E. and Osage Avenue, S.E.
(Map Change No. 1964, Sheet No. 6).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
EDWARD W. RYBKA,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
May 27 and June 3, 1998

The City Record
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10, 1998

75
FRIDAY, JUNE 12, 1998
Building Materials — Used Paving
Bricks, for the various divisions
of City Government, Department
of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2205-96, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
January 13, 1997.
Hydraulic Cylinder Repair, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 431-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, April 27,
1998.
Hydraulic Pumps, Motors and Valve
Repair, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 431-98, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 27, 1998.
May 27, 1998 and June 3, 1998
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 17, 1998
North Royalton-Akins 30" Water
Supply Main, Phase I, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 964-93, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 13, 1993.
A DEPOSIT OF TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($200.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 9,
1998, 9:30 A.M., IN THE ENGINEER’S CONFERENCE ROOM ON
THE
5TH
FLOOR
AT
75
ERIEVIEW
PLAZA,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
ATTENDANCE IS NOT MANDATORY.

Eight (8) Alpha Server Disk Drives,
Including
Installation,
for
the
Division of Administrative Services, Department of Community
Development, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2458-92, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, January 25, 1993.

Two
(2)
Remittance
Processing
Machines, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2100-97, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, February
2, 1998.

May 27, 1998 and June 3, 1998

May 27, 1998 and June 3, 1998

THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 1998

THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1998

Erieside and West 3rd Street Area
Pump Station — Phase I, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 2020-97, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT
WILL
BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE.

Labor and Materials to Install Aviation Communications Equipment
and to Remove Existing Equipment, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 147097, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 22,
1997.
A PRE-BID CONFERENCE WILL
BE HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 9,
1998, 1:30 P.M., IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF
PORT
CONTROL’S
BAGGAGE CLAIM CONFERENCE
ROOM, 5300 RIVERSIDE DRIVE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO.

May 27, 1998 and June 3, 1998

897

Materials to Install, Replace or
Repair Airfield Signage, for the
various divisions of the Department of Port Control, as autho-

The City Record

76
rized by Ordinance No. 2183-97,
passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 2,
1998.
May 27, 1998 and June 3, 1998
FRIDAY, JUNE 19, 1998
Decorative Safety Post Light Program (Installation), for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
508-98, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, May 18,
1998.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 1998, 3:00 P.M., AT
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Post Light Program (Material), for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 508-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 18,
1998.
A M A N D A T O R Y PRE-BID MEETING
WILL
BE
HELD
ON
THURSDAY,
JUNE
11,
1998,
11:00
A.M.,
AT
CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
May 27, 1998 and June 3, 1998
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 17, 1998
Easton Park Site Improvements and
Luke
Easter
Park
Sidewalk
Improvements, for the Division of
Research, Planning and Development,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 126497 and 1965-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 16, 1997 and December 15,
1997, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE.
June 3, 1998 and June 10, 1998
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1998
Five (5) Insulated Food Distribution
Carts, for the Division of Correction, Department of Public Health,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2042-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December
15, 1997.
Phase
II
—
Software, for
the
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 127597, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 22,
1997.
June 3, 1998 and June 10, 1998

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 298-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement
contract
of
curb
bumpers and plow blades, for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of curb bumpers and plow blades in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit
basis
for
the
Division
of
Streets, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period
less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21346)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 18, 1998.
Effective May 25, 1998.
Ord. No. 301-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of guard rail
elements, posts, end wings, and necessary hardware, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written

898

June 3, 1998
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of guard rail elements, posts, end
wings, and necessary hardware in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit
basis
for
the
Division
of
Streets, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21337)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 18, 1998.
Effective May 25, 1998.
REPRINT
Res. No. 941-98.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution urging
The Civil Service Commission to
amend its rules to define the term
“bona fide resident of the City of
Cleveland”.
Whereas, Section 74(c) of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Rule 4.40G of The Rules of the Civil
Service Commission of the City of
Cleveland provide that a person who
is a bona fide resident of the City
of Cleveland at the time of the filing of his/her application for examination have added to their score ten
(10) points, if they passed the exam;
and
Whereas, bona fide resident must
be defined to mean a person who
at the time of the filing of his/her
application for an examination has
been a resident of the City of
Cleveland for at least one (1) year;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department;
Now, therefore, be it resolved by
the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges The Civil Service Commission to take whatever action is
necessary to define “bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland” as
used in Section 74(c) of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland and Rule

The City Record

June 3, 1998
4.40G of the Rules of The Civil Service Commission to mean a person
who has had as his/her primary residence a residence in the City of
Cleveland for at least one (1) year
at the time of his/her filing an
application for examination with
said Commission.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 18, 1998.
Effective May 27, 1998.
REPRINT
Ord. No. 1279-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Rybka and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering
services necessary to design the
relocation of Brook Park Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general airport revenue bonds authorized by
Ordinance No. 923-97, passed June 9,
1997, the Director of Port Control is
hereby authorized and directed to
employ by contract one or more
engineers or one or more firms of
engineers for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the relocation of Brook
Park Road.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance. Prior to
such Board of Control selection, the
Director of Port Control shall notify
the Chairman of the Aviation and
Transportation Committee, in writing, of the proposed consultant and
the pending selection of such consultant by the Board.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from the proceeds of the
sale of the general airport revenue
bonds of the City of Cleveland
authorized by Ordinance No. 923-97,
passed June 9, 1997, and from any
fund or subfunds to which any federal grants for said contract are
credited, Request No. 22506.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 11, 1998.
Effective May 20, 1998.
REPRINT
Ord. No. 307-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Westbrook,
Rybka
and
Johnson(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 930-95, passed June 19, 1995, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2150-95,
passed December 18, 1995, relating
to the acquisition boundaries of real
property located in the vicinity of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport; to enact new Section 8 and
to renumber existing Section 8 as
new Section 9.
Whereas a full effort is to be
made by the Administration to tender purchase offers to homeowners
before the end of 1998; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 930-95,
passed June 19, 1995, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed December 18, 1995, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase real property,
including
homes
and/or
parcels, located within the boundaries of Forestwood Avenue, Brysdale Avenue, Interstate 71 right-ofway, Springdale Avenue and Westport Avenue and West 198th Street
in the City of Cleveland; authorizing
the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide professional services necessary to perform services including,
but not limited to, architectural,
engineering, noise measurement and
administrative services for sound
insulation of homes located in the
vicinity of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement of construction for
Phase II of the sound insulation
improvement program for homes
located in the vicinity of Hopkins
Airport, and authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into contract or contracts for the making of
such improvements, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
Section 1. That the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is hereby
authorized to purchase all real property,
including
homes
and/or
parcels, located within the boundaries of Forestwood Avenue and
Brysdale Avenue (north), Interstate
71 right-of-way (east), Springdale
Avenue
and
Westport
Avenue
(south),
and
West
198th
Street
(west), as part of the City’s noise
abatement program, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
located
within
the
following
described area, provided that the
grant agreement applicable to a par-

899

77
ticular parcel is executed prior to
the purchase of that parcel:
ACQUISITION BOUNDARIES
CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Beginning on the centerline of
Rocky River Drive S.W. (width
varies) at its intersection with the
Westerly
prolongation
of
the
Northerly line of the Riverview Subdivision No. 2 as shown by the
recorded map in Volume 95, Page 38
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation and the Northerly
line of said Riverview Subdivision
No. 2 to its intersection with the
Westerly right-of-way line of Interstate Route 71;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Westerly right-of-way of said Interstate Route 71 to its intersection
with the Southerly line of the
Riverview Subdivision No. 2 as
aforesaid;
Thence
Westerly
along
the
Southerly
line
of
the
aforesaid
Riverview Subdivision No. 2 and its
Westerly prolongation to the centerline of Rocky River Drive S.W.;
Thence Southerly along the centerline of said Rocky River Drive
S.W. to its intersection with the
Easterly
prolongation
of
the
Southerly line of the Conger-Helper
Realty Company’s Home Gardens
Allotment as shown by the recorded
map in Volume 63, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and the Southerly line
of the said Conger-Helper Realty
Company’s Home Gardens Allotment
and its Westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the Easterly line of
the C. & D. Southwest Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along the said
C. & D. Southwest Subdivision to the
Southeasterly corner of Sublot Number 71 in said Subdivision;
Thence
Westerly
along
said
Sublot Number 71 to its intersection
with the Easterly line of West 198th
Street (70 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said West 198th Street
to its intersection with the Easterly
prolongation of the Southerly line of
Elsmere Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide);
Thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and the Southerly line of Elsmere Avenue S.W. to
its intersection with the Southerly
prolongation of the Westerly line
of Sublot Number 130 in the C. &
D. Southwest Subdivision as aforesaid;
Thence
Northerly
along
the
Southerly
prolongation
and
the
Westerly line of Sublot Number 130
through 145 both inclusive and the
Northerly prolongation thereof to its
intersection with the centerline of
Midvale Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide);
Thence Easterly along the centerline of Midvale Avenue S.W. to its
intersection with the centerline of
West 198th Street as aforesaid;
Thence Northerly and Westerly
along the centerline of said West
198th Street to its intersection with
the centerline of Forestwood Avenue
S.W.;
Thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 198th Street to
its intersection with the Westerly
prolongation of the Northerly line of
Sublot Number 15 in the aforesaid C.
& D. Southwest Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and the Northerly
line of Sublot Number 15 through 34,
both inclusive and the Easterly pro-

The City Record

78
longation thereof to its intersection
with the Northerly line of Sublot
Number 1 in The West River Subdivision Number 1 as shown in Volume 159, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence continuing Easterly along
Sublot Numbers 1 through 37, both
inclusive of said Subdivision, and
the Easterly prolongation thereof to
its intersection with the centerline
of Rocky River Drive S.W.;
Thence Southerly along the centerline of said Rocky River Drive
S.W. to the place of beginning.
Section 2. That Ordinance No. 93095, passed June 19, 1995, as amended by Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed

December 18, 1995, is hereby supplemented by enacting new Section
8 to read as follows:
Section 8. That no properties
acquired pursuant to this ordinance
will be resold to any third parties
without the prior approval of Council through the passage of legislation.
Section 3. That the existing Section 8 of Ordinance No. 930-95,
passed June 19, 1995, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed December 18, 1995, is renumbered to “Section 9”.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

June 3, 1998
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 11, 1998.
Effective May 20, 1998.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
NO MEETINGS

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1646-97, passed October 20, 1997 - relating to a grant
from Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County for 1998 Drug
Prevention, Treatment and Intervention Program. (O 317-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Bonds
Bonds — issuance and sale — $1,100,000 — improvements of municipal properties and
easements in residential neighborhoods (O 981-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Bonds — issuance and sale — $11,820,000 — improve the municipal street system
(O 984-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Bonds — issuance and sale
structures (O 982-98) . .
Bonds — issuance and sale
facilities (O 980-98) . . .
Bonds — issuance and sale
Bonds — issuance and sale
(O 983-98) . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
...
—
...
—
—
...

$2,025,000 — improve cemeteries and related buildings and
.........................................................
$4,340,000 — improve municipal parks and recreation
.........................................................
$55,000,000 (O 979-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$7,275,000 — improving buildings and structures housing
.........................................................

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859

Burke Lakefront Airport
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Incorporated — use of certain premises — Burke Lakefront
Airport — Grand Prix auto races — Port Control Department (O 992-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

CSX Transportation, Incorporated
Norfolk Southern Corporation and Norfolk Southern Railway Company — approving and
ratifying agreement (O 978-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
City Planning Department
Repealing Ordinance No. 2948-89, passed November 12, 1990 — establishing mall historic
landmark district (O 1016-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Southerly side of Bridge Avenue, N.W. between east of West 54th Street and west of West
52nd Street — change Use and Area Districts (O 1017-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Civil Service Commission
Civil Service Commission — amend rules to define “bona fide resident of the City
of Cleveland” and add ten points to score of residents who passed the exam
(R 941-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898-R
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Permit — Cleveland Clinic Run — June 20, 1998 — Hermes Race Systems (O 970-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884

900

June 3, 1998

The City Record

79

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Amend title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 930-95, passed June 19, 1995 - as amended by
Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed December 18, 1995 - relating to acquisition boundaries
- real property - vicinity of Cleveland Hopkins International Air (O 307-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

825 899-R

Cleveland Municipal Court
Criminal and civil filing system and retrieve cases — Finance Department — Cleveland
Municipal Court (O 986-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
National Underground Storage, Inc. — lease of space — storage of records — Cleveland
Municipal Court — Finance Department (O 985-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation
Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation — continue administration — Industrial
Retention and Expansion Program — Economic Development Department (O 1008-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Cleveland Range, Inc.
St. Clair Avenue, 17901-03 and 18111 — Cleveland Range, Inc. — renovation and asbestos
abatement — Economic Development Department (O 1014-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Colonial Arcade
Colonial Market Place, LLC — rehabilitation and redevelopment — Colonial and Euclid
Arcades — Economic Development Department (O 1010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Colonial Market Place
Colonial Market Place, LLC — rehabilitation and redevelopment — Colonial and Euclid
Arcades — Economic Development Department (O 1010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Communications
Contract No. 51070A & B — Nerone & Sons, Incorporated — Utilities Department
(F 955-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — agreement — Cleveland Energy Resources
(F 958-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Coast Harbor Report — Cuyahoga County Port Authority — agreement dated January
1, 1995 (F 961-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North side of Mt. Overlook Avenue and East 124th Street — Sales Request No. 90161
(F 956-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Notification of “Set Aside”, Request #13524 — Port Control Department (F 957-98) . . . . . . . . . . .
Notification of “Set Aside”, Request #13558 — Port Control Department (F 959-98) . . . . . . . . . . .
Playhouse Square Center — Modified Articles of Incorporation (F 960-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subsidiary Agreement — Utilities Department (F 954-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 826
. . . . . . . . . . . 826
. . . . . . . . . . . 826
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

826
826
826
826
826

Community Development
Bonds — issuance and sale — $7,275,000 — improving buildings and structures housing
(O 983-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Demolition of four school buildings — Community Development Department (O 1007-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Title, Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed December 16,1 998,
amend — Section 108 Loan — Gateway at Playhouse Square Associates, Limited
Liability Company (O 1004-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Condolences
Harville, Shirley D. (R 1019-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Rutherford, Susie Mae (R 1020-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Congratulations
American Business Women’s Association (R 1021-98)
Laster, Emily (R 1022-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neubecker, Ricki M. (R 1024-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pipefitters Local Union #120 (R 1025-98) . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward One 1998 Lifetime Achievement Recipients (R
Wesolowski, Edward R. (R 1023-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

........
........
........
........
1026-98)
........

901

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 826
. 826
. 826
. 826
. 826
. 826

The City Record

80

June 3, 1998

Council
Professional consulting services — Watson & Watson — directing payment of Voucher No.
104155 — City Council (O 977-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Cuyahoga Community College
Ohio Peace Officers Training — provide for ten students — contract — Cuyahoga Community
College. (O 82-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Cuyahoga County Port Authority
North Coast Harbor Report — Cuyahoga County Port Authority — agreement dated January
1, 1995 (F 961-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Economic Development Department
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Office Max, Inc. - City-owned property
- Village of Highland Hills (O 478-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation — continue administration — Industrial
Retention and Expansion Program — Economic Development Department (O 1008-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Colonial Market Place, LLC — rehabilitation and redevelopment — Colonial and Euclid
Arcades — Economic Development Department (O 1010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
EPA Brownsfields Economic Development Initiative Brownfield Assessment Demonstration Pilot
Program — apply for and accept grant— enter into contract with WIRE-Net to
implement program (O 699-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Lee Road, 4500 — Helima Rollform, LLC. — relocate tubing mill operation and purchase
machinery — Economic Development Department (O 1013-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
St. Clair Avenue, 17901-03 and 18111 — Cleveland Range, Inc. — renovation and asbestos
abatement — Economic Development Department (O 1014-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Taft Avenue, 12911 — S.R.S. Company, Inc. — renovate property — Economic Development
Department (O 1012-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
West Street, 955 — ITX, Corporation — ten year abatement — rehabilitated building —
Economic Development Department (O 1009-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
West Street, 955 and Center Street, 1100 — Flats Realty, Ltd. — expand facility
— Economic Development Department (O 1011-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Environment Division
Lead Detectors, two portable — purchase — Division of Environment (O 819-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Euclid Arcade
Colonial Market Place, LLC — rehabilitation and redevelopment — Colonial and Euclid
Arcades — Economic Development Department (O 1010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Finance Department
Amend Sections 16 and 41 of Ord. No. 436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as amended by Ord.
No. 1474-97, passed Oct. 13, 1997 — various classifications (O 857-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Bonds — issuance and sale — $1,100,000 — improvements of municipal properties and
easements in residential neighborhoods (O 981-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Bonds — issuance and sale — $11,820,000 — improve the municipal street system
(O 984-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Bonds — issuance and sale — $2,025,000 — improve cemeteries and related buildings and
structures (O 982-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Bonds — issuance and sale — $4,340,000 — improve municipal parks and recreation
facilities (O 980-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Bonds — issuance and sale — $55,000,000 (O 979-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Bonds — issuance and sale — $7,275,000 — improving buildings and structures housing
(O 983-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Criminal and civil filing system and retrieve cases — Finance Department — Cleveland
Municipal Court (O 986-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Moral Claims — Finance Department (O 987-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
National Underground Storage, Inc. — lease of space — storage of records — Cleveland
Municipal Court — Finance Department (O 985-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Professional consulting services — Watson & Watson — Directing payment of Voucher No.
104155 — City Council (O 977-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885

902

June 3, 1998

The City Record

81

Flats Realty, Ltd.
West Street, 955 and Center Street, 1100 — Flats Realty, Ltd. — expand facility
— Economic Development Department (O 1011-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881

Grants
EPA Brownsfields Economic Development Initiative Brownfield Assessment Demonstration Pilot
Program — apply for and accept grant— enter into contract with WIRE-Net to
implement program (O 699-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Helima Rollform, LLC.
Lee Road, 4500 — Helima Rollform, LLC. — relocate tubing mill operation and purchase
machinery — Economic Development Department (O 1013-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Hermes Race Systems
Permit — Cleveland Clinic Run — June 20, 1998 — Hermes Race Systems (O 970-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Permit — St. Augustine Run — June 6, 1998 — Hermes Race Systems (O 972-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885

IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Inc.,
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Incorporated — use of certain premises — Burke Lakefront
Airport — Grand Prix auto races — Port Control Department (O 992-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Kenmore Construction Company
Contract No. 51520 — Kenmore Construction Company — grinding pavement — Service
Department (O 1002-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877

Land Reutilization Program
East 70th Street, 1890-1884 — Louise V. Jackson (O 1006-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
St. Clair Avenue, 14810 — Pamela J. Hagler (O 1005-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
St. Clair Avenue, 17901-17903 and 18111 — Collinwood Nottingham Villages Development
Corporation (O 1003-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
West 45th Street, 2017 — Lakeside Blueprint Incorporated (O 971-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884

Leases
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Incorporated — use of certain premises — Burke Lakefront
Airport — Grand Prix auto races — Port Control Department (O 992-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Liquor Permits
East 65th Street, 3125 — new application (F 965-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
East 65th Street, 3125 — objection — issuance (R 975-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
East 6th Street, 1850-75 — transfer of ownership and location (F 968-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
East 93rd Street, 3661 — objection — transfer of ownership (R 976-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
East 93rd Street, 3661 — transfer of ownership (F 966-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Huron Road, 812 — transfer of ownership (F 967-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Mayfield Road, 12312 — new application (F 962-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Munn Road, 15520 — withdrawing objection — transfer of ownership — repealing Resolution
No. 376-98 (R 973-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Quincy Avenue, 6017 — new application (F 963-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Quincy Avenue, 8502 — new application (F 964-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Mayor’s Office
Norfolk Southern Corporation and Norfolk Southern Railway Company — approving and
ratifying agreement (O 978-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Moral Claims
Moral Claims — Finance Department (O 987-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872

903

The City Record

82

June 3, 1998

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Automotive, van and truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Service
Department (O 998-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division —
Service Department — two years (O 996-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
International truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Service Department —
two years (O 995-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Repair or replace fuel dispensing pumps and systems — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
— Service Department — two years (O 997-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876

National Underground Storage, Inc.
National Underground Storage, Inc. — lease of space — storage of records — Cleveland
Municipal Court — Finance Department (O 985-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Office Max, Inc. - City-owned property
- Village of Highland Hills (O 478-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Bonds — issuance and sale — $2,025,000 — improve cemeteries and related buildings and
structures (O 982-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Bonds — issuance and sale — $4,340,000 — improve municipal parks and recreation
facilities (O 980-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Contract No. 51184 — Groton Park — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
(F 969-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Permits
Permit — Cleveland Clinic Run — June 20, 1998 — Hermes Race Systems (O 970-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Permit — St. Augustine Run — June 6, 1998 — Hermes Race Systems (O 972-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885

Personnel and Human Resources Department
Applied Benefits Research, Inc. — administer City’s COBRA Program — Personnel and Human
Resources Division (O 1015-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Playhouse Square Associates
Title, Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed December 16,1 998,
amend — Section 108 Loan — Gateway at Playhouse Square Associates, Limited
Liability Company (O 1004-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878

Port Control Department
Amend title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 930-95, passed June 19, 1995 - as amended by
Ordinance No. 2150-95, passed December 18, 1995 - relating to acquisition boundaries
- real property - vicinity of Cleveland Hopkins International Air (O 307-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

825 899-R

De-icing agents — Port Control Department — two years (O 990-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Design relocation of Brook Park Road — Port Control Department (O 1279-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

825 899-R

Execute de-icing collection services — Port Control Department — two years
(O 991-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
IMG Motorsports-Cleveland, Incorporated — use of certain premises — Burke Lakefront
Airport — Grand Prix auto races — Port Control Department (O 992-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Notification of “Set Aside”, Request #13524 — Port Control Department (F 957-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Notification of “Set Aside”, Request #13558 — Port Control Department (F 959-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Public Health Department
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1646-97, passed October 20, 1997 - relating to a grant
from Alcohol and Drug Addic- tion Services Board of Cuyahoga County for 1998 Drug
Prevention, Treatment and Intervention Program. (O 317-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Ohio Peace Officers Training — provide for ten students — contract — Cuyahoga Community
College. (O 82-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886

904

June 3, 1998

The City Record

83

Purchases/Contracts
Applied Benefits Research, Inc. — administer City’s COBRA Program — Personnel and Human
Resources Division (O 1015-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Automotive, van and truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Service
Department (O 998-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation — continue administration — Industrial
Retention and Expansion Program — Economic Development Department (O 1008-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Contract No. 51070A & B — Nerone & Sons, Incorporated — Utilities Department
(F 955-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Contract No. 51520 — Kenmore Construction Company — grinding pavement — Service
Department (O 1002-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Criminal and civil filing system and retrieve cases — Finance Department — Cleveland
Municipal Court (O 986-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
De-icing agents — Port Control Department — two years (O 990-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Demolition of four school buildings — Community Development Department (O 1007-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Execute de-icing collection services — Port Control Department — two years
(O 991-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division —
Service Department — two years (O 996-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
International truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Service Department —
two years (O 995-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Maintain HVAC equipment — Water Pollution Control Division — Utilities Department
(O 989-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Repair or replace fuel dispensing pumps and systems — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
— Service Department — two years (O 997-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Replacement receptacle lids — Waste Collection Division — Service Department
(O 994-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Recognitions
“Take Up Space and Declaration of Space Leadership” week (R 1030-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Fairchild Jeep Eagle (R 1029-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
International Theatre exchange (R 1028-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Toney, Dr. Mitchel Nathaniel (R 1027-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Repealed Ordinances (Noncodified)
Repealing Ordinance No. 2948-89, passed November 12, 1990 — establishing mall historic
landmark district (O 1016-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1467-96, passed October 14, 1996, amend — rehabilitating and
reconstructing East 55th Street from Blanche Avenue to Woodland Avenue (O 1001-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1468-96, passed October 14, 1996, amend— rehabilitaint and
reconstructing Bessemer Avenue from East 65th Street to East 88th Street
(O 1000-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1471-96, passed October 14, 1996, amend — rehabilitating and
reconstructing portions of Arlington avenue, east 123rd Street and East 125th Street
(O 999-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Title, Sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Ordinance No. 1929-96, passed December 16,1 998,
amend — Section 108 Loan — Gateway at Playhouse Square Associates, Limited
Liability Company (O 1004-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Civil Service Commission — amend rules to define “bona fide resident of the City
of Cleveland” and add ten points to score of residents who passed the exam
(R 941-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898-R
FirstEnergy Corporation — withdraw recently issued layoff notices to employees — return
to bargaining table (R 974-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
S.R.S. Company, Inc.
Taft Avenue, 12911 — S.R.S. Company, Inc. — renovate property — Economic Development
Department (O 1012-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Safety Department
Center and lane lines — paint — purchase labor and materials — Traffic Engineering and
Parking Division (O 758-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

905

The City Record

84

June 3, 1998

Sign post and reflective sheeting — purchase — Traffic Engineering and Parking Division
(O 759-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Traffic control signal lamps — purchase — Division of Traffic Engineering and Parking
(O 682-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Traffic paint, thermoplastic material and reflective glass beads — purchase — Traffic
Engineering and Parking (O 760-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Traffic signal and sign material equipment — purchase — Traffic Engineering and Parking
Division (O 683-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Salaries
Amend Sections 16 and 41 of Ord. No. 436-97, passed April 14, 1997, as amended by Ord.
No. 1474-97, passed Oct. 13, 1997 — various classifications (O 857-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Service Department
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - reclamite asphalt
rejuvenating agent - Division of Streets - Department of Public Service (O 471-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - curb bumpers and plow
blades - Division of Streets - Department of Public Service. (O 298-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Authorizing and directing - purchase by requirement contract - guard rail elements, posts,
end wings and necessary hardware - Division of Streets - Department of Public
Service. (O 301-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Automotive, van and truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Service
Department (O 998-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Bonds — issuance and sale — $1,100,000 — improvements of municipal properties and
easements in residential neighborhoods (O 981-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Bonds — issuance and sale — $11,820,000 — improve the municipal street system
(O 984-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Contract No. 51520 — Kenmore Construction Company — grinding pavement — Service
Department (O 1002-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division —
Service Department — two years (O 996-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
International truck parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division — Service Department —
two years (O 995-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Repair or replace fuel dispensing pumps and systems — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
— Service Department — two years (O 997-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Replacement receptacle lids — Waste Collection Division — Service Department
(O 994-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1467-96, passed October 14, 1996, amend — rehabilitating and
reconstructing East 55th Street from Blanche Avenue to Woodland Avenue (O 1001-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1468-96, passed October 14, 1996, amend— rehabilitaint and
reconstructing Bessemer Avenue from East 65th Street to East 88th Street
(O 1000-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1471-96, passed October 14, 1996, amend — rehabilitating and
reconstructing portions of Arlington avenue, east 123rd Street and East 125th Street
(O 999-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876

Statement of Work Acceptance
Contract No. 51184 — Groton Park — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
(F 969-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Streets - Vacation
East 12th Street and Webster Avenue — intention to vacate portions of. (R 563-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Old Grayton Road — vacation (R 1018-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Pearl Court, S.W. — vacation (O 993-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Vacate — Webster Avenue (R 1661-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
West 30th Street and Keene Court, S. W. — intention to vacate portions
of (R 625-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Streets Division
Authorizing and Directing - purchase by requirement contract - reclamite asphalt
rejuvenating agent - Division of Streets - Department of Public Service (O 471-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886

906

June 3, 1998

The City Record

85

Traffic Engineering and Parking Division
Center and lane lines — paint — purchase labor and materials — Traffic Engineering and
Parking Division (O 758-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sign post and reflective sheeting — purchase — Traffic Engineering and Parking Division
(O 759-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traffic control signal lamps — purchase — Division of Traffic Engineering and Parking
(O 682-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traffic paint, thermoplastic material and reflective glass beads — purchase — Traffic
Engineering and Parking (O 760-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traffic signal and sign material equipment — purchase — Traffic Engineering and Parking
Division (O 683-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . 888

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
EPA Brownsfields Economic Development Initiative Brownfield Assessment Demonstration Pilot
Program — apply for and accept grant— enter into contract with WIRE-Net to
implement program (O 699-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Utilities Department
Contract No. 51070A & B — Nerone & Sons, Incorporated — Utilities Department
(F 955-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Filter performance evalutation of water treatment plants — Utilities Department
(O 988-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maintain HVAC equipment — Water Pollution Control Division — Utilities Department
(O 989-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subsidiary Agreement — Utilities Department (F 954-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Village of Highland Hills
Authorizing - Mayor - Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Economic
Development - enter into Purchase Agreement - Office Max, Inc. - City-owned property
- Village of Highland Hills (O 478-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Replacement receptacle lids — Waste Collection Division — Service Department
(O 994-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Water Pollution Control Division
Maintain HVAC equipment — Water Pollution Control Division — Utilities Department
(O 989-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Zoning
Southerly side of Bridge Avenue, N.W. between east of West 54th Street and west of West
52nd Street — change Use and Area Districts (O 1017-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Zoning--Public Hearings--City Planning Committee
Change Use and Area Districts - easterly side of West 130th Street - between - Matherson
Avenue, S.W. - Leeila Avenue, S.W. (O 250-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 200th Street, westerly side from Mohican Avenue, N. E., north to City Line (Ward 11)
-- change use and area districts. (O 161-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 78th Street (westerly) between Aetna Road, S.E. and Osage Avenue, S.E. -- change use
area of lands -- amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 2107-97 (O 623-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing Midtown Business -- Revitalization District -- repeal Ordinance No. 965-95
(O 1756-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairhill Village -- establishing historic landmark district (O 1868-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Road, N.E. between Yorick Avenue, N. E. and south of Manadalay Avenue, N. E. (Ward
11) -- change use district. (O 160-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeport Road, N. E. to Lakeshore Boulevard, N. E. southwest of Brazil Road, N. E.-change use district of lands. (O 330-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Station Historic Landmark District -- establish as a landmark (O 332-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Road, N. E. (Lands south of) and the New York/Central Railroad and between Neff
Road, N. E. and East 200th Street -- change use and height districts of lands
-- amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 2106-97. (O 622-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street / Berea Road -- establish as a Business Revitalization District.
(O 333-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

907

. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 896
. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 897

. . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . 897

