The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

November the Eighteenth, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Eight

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Artha Woods
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Larry Moran
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
16
17
19
19
20
22
22
22
24
29
29

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ..............................................15601 Lotus Drive
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3032 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.........................................1813 Tampa Avenue
Larry Moran .............................................3584 West 46th Street
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council–Artha Woods, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk–Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Laura Ann Williams, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Milan T. Polacek, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
DEPT. OF LAW –Cornell P. Carter, Directo r, Lessie M. Milton,
Chief Counsel, Room 106
George A. Pace, Jr., Chief Asst. Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice
Center, 8th Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Gayle Goodwin Smith, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Commissioner, 1404 E.
9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Solomon F. Balraj,, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Acting
Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – JoMarie Wasik, Acting Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kenneth Nobilio, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Robert O. Staib, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue.
DIVISIONS – Health – Joyce Atwell-Joyce, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Eric Myles, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925
St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY –William M. Denihan , Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Rocco Pollutro, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – __________, Commissioner, 2001 Payne Ave.
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 1708 South
Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Nicholas P. Jackson,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium– James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner, East 49th &
Harvard

Parking Facilities – Alfred T. Miller, Jr., Acting Commissioner, Public
Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties –Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Joseph Nolan,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Susan E. Axelrod, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Acting

Director; Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele
Springman, Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward
Rybka, City Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie,
Charles E. McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary
Jan Buckshot, Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen,
Barbara S. Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Cynthia Sullivan,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter, President; Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr., Secretary;
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Henry Guzmán;

Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell

P. Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Rev. Albert T. Rowan, Chairman; ____________, Vice Chairman, David
Bowen, Anthony J. Coyne, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney,
Councilman Edward W. Rybka.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Martin L. Carmody, Jr.; Council President Jay Westbrook;
Councilman Roosevelt Coats; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Raymond Ossovicki,
Chairman; _____________, Anton J. Eichmuller, Samuel Montfort
J. Gilbert Steele, Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chrm.;
Earl S. Bumgarner, _______________, Jozef Valencik, Martin Gallagher,
Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
CLE VELAND LANDMA RKS COMMISSION – Ro om 5 19 ,___ ___ __,
Director; R. Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Robert
Keiser, Secretary; Judge Lillian Burke, James Gibans, Hunter Morrison,
Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Randall Shorr, Shirley Thompson,
Councilman Craig E. Willis, Councilman Joe Cimperman.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1998

Vol. 85

No. 4432

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1998
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

ARTHA WOODS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
&
Recreation
Committee: Willis,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Britt, Lewis, Polensek, Sweeney,
White.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Cintron,
Jackson, Melena, Robinson.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Cintron,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Johnson, Jones,
Melena, Moran, Patmon, Polensek.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Moran, Vice Chairman;Britt, Cintron, Gordon, Lewis,
Johnson.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Johnson, Chairman;
Westbrook,
Vice
Chairman; Coats, Lewis, Melena,
Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka,
Sweeney, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:00A.M.—Community and Economic
Development Committee: Jackson,
Chairman; Robinson, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Gordon,
Jones, Lewis, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Zone, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Dolan, Johnson, Rybka.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Cimperman,
Dolan,
Patmon,
White,
Willis.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Coats, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Gordon, Jackson, Jones,
Melena, Moran, White, Willis.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Coats, Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Jones, Lewis, Moran, Polensek.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Rybka, Chairman; Robinson,
Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Jackson, White, Willis, Zone.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio November 16, 1998.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Jay
Westbrook in the Chair.
Councilmen
present:
Cimperman,
Cintron, Coats, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Lewis, Melena,
Moran, Patmon, Polensek, Robinson,
Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook, White,
Willis, Zone.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Carter, Balraj, Guzman, Staib, Denihan, Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan, Warren, Axelrod, Dove,
Morrison
and
Acting
Directors
Frank, Ciaccia.
Absent: Directors Carmody, Konicek.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rev. Bede
Kotlinski, of St. Andrew Abbey of
10510 Buckeye Road, located in
Ward 4. Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 1994-98.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Sales Request No.
90168. Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT
OF LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1995-98.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 7694512 - Salt
Mine Corporation dba Lake Effect,
4204 Detroit Avenue. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 1996-98.
Re: Transfer of Location Application - 52379270001 - Little Kings
Lounge,
Inc.
dba
Little
Kings
Lounge, 3061 Payne Avenue. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 1997-98.
Re: Stock Transfer Application 8616529 - Stop N Save, Inc., 13501
Lakewood Heights Boulevard, first
floor. (Ward 19). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1998-98.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract No. PS 48528 for improvement
at Settlers Landing Park 1997 Construction Phase II. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION

MOTION
On the motion of Councilman
Coats, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 417-98.
Letter
from
various
entities
apprising the Council that each said
entity will be a partner in a residential development project located
in various residential development
project located in various wards,
with any development dependent
upon various funding programs and
tax credits, some through the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency, and allowing for public comment regarding
each project’s impact.
The following entity sent a letter
for the development listed with project type and number of units. Famicos Foundation total of 25 units.
Received.
File No. 1993-98.
From the Department of Public
Safety
re:
MBE/FBE“Set
Aside”
Requisition list sent to the Division
of Purchases and Supplies. Received.

1919

The rule was suspended and the
following resolution was adopted by
a rising vote:
Res. No. 2021-98—Anita Juan Gulley.
CONGRATULATORY RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2022-98—Shade Hayes.
Res No. 2023-98—The Amici String
Quartet.
Res No. 2024-98—Sandi Gerena.
Res No. 2025-98—Tyrone McGuinea.
Res No. 2026-98—Dr. James Leu.
Res
No.
2027-98—Gregory
L.
Brown.
Res No. 2028-98—Melvin G. Pye, Jr.
Res No. 2029-98—Albert B. Ratner.
Res. No. 2030-98—Jacqueline Beatrice Parries.
Res.
No.
2031-98—Tamura
T.
Rogers.
Res. No. 2032-98—James Hogan.
Res. No. 2033-98—Antioch Credit
Union.
Res. No. 2034-98—Reverend Bishop
Prince J. Moultry.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1999-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds obtained from the Ohio
Bureau of Workers’ Compensation
for various public improvements and
to purchase vehicles.
Whereas, the Ohio Bureau of
Workers’
Compensation
(“BWC”)
refunded to the City funds from previous premiums paid to it; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
appropriate funds received from the
BWC for the purposes of making
public improvements and purchasing furniture and equipment for the
City’s recreation and health centers,
purchasing vehicles for the various
City departments and constructing a
recreation center in the Collinwood
neighborhood; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby appropriates funds received from
the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation as a refund for previous
premiums paid in the amount of Ten
Million Dollars ($10,000,000.00), from
Fund No. 10 SF 166, for the purposes of paying the cost of making public improvements to and purchasing
furniture and equipment for the
City’s recreation and health centers
in the amount of $5,000,000.00, paying the cost of purchasing vehicles
for the various City departments in
the amount of $4,000,000.00, and paying the cost of constructing a recreation
center
in
the
Collinwood
neighborhood in the amount of
$1,000,000.00, pursuant to the following schedule:
Personnel . . . . . . . . . . -0Other Expenses . . .. . $10,000,000.00
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2000-98.
By Councilmen Patmon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of one
diesel forklift truck, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: one (1) diesel forklift
truck, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities.

Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 24035.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2001-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
apply for and accept State of Ohio
and Federal grant funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept grants from
the United States of America acting
through its Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), the United States
Department
of
Transportation
and/or its member agencies, and
grants from the State of Ohio, as
they may become available, to fund
projects related to the operations of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. The Director is further authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to apply
for, accept and receive funds under
said grants; provided that the City
shall follow all applicable federal
regulations; and that any grant
funds be and are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in
the applications for said grants, or
any amendments thereto.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is further authorized to
pay cash match funds for projects
approved
by
the
above-named
grantors for grant funding. Said
matching funds shall be paid from
funds appropriated for the use of
the Department of Port Control and
any existing or future revenue bond
funds, grant proceeds and PFC
authorizations.
Section 3. That the provisions of
this
ordinance
shall
expire
on
December 31, 2000.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance, Law.
Ord. No. 2002-98.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair air

1920

November 18, 1998
conditioning systems for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
(2) years for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain and repair the air conditioning systems in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
24794)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2003-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various on-road vehicles
and off-road equipment, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various on-road vehicles and off-road
equipment in the estimated sum of
$4,000,000.00, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

November 18, 1998
plies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
23262)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 2004-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide professional
services necessary to implement the
HOPWA program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
professional consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
HOPWA program.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Health, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF 482
and 13 SF 513, Request No. 24512.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 2005-98.
By Councilmen Coats, Zone and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1116-98,
passed July 29, 1998, relating to
intermunicipal fire protection agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.26 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1116-98, passed July 29,
1998, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 135.26 Intermunicipal Fire
Protection Agreements
The Director of Public Safety is
hereby authorized to enter into
agreements to provide or accept services of fire forces, including the
interchange of fire forces, technical
rescue, confined space rescue, and
hazardous materials response , or the
use of fire apparatus with the county or any political subdivision, state
agency or instrumentality within
Cuyahoga County as shall request
such agreements, or as agree to provide such services to the City of
Cleveland, in the interest of public
safety. Any such agreements must
be authorized by the legislative
body of the governing board of the
entity requesting service from or
providing service to the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That existing Section
135.26 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1116-98, passed July
29, 1998, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2006-98.
By Councilmen Willis, Gordon,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing, upgrading, securing or otherwise improving certain City-owned
recreation facilities and City-owned
health
centers,
including
site
improvements and appurtenances;
authorizing the Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties and Public Health to proceed with said
improvements by the direct employment of the necessary labor for

1921

5
areas
not
otherwise
improved;
authorizing said directors to enter
into contracts for the making of
their respective improvements; to
employ one or more architectural,
landscape architectural or engineering firms and other consultants necessary to provide professional services relating to such improvements;
and authorizing and directing the
purchase by contract of furniture
and equipment necessary for the
improvements for the Divisions of
Recreation and Health, Departments
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Public Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, rehabilitating,
renovating,
replacing,
upgrading,
securing or otherwise improving certain City-owned recreation facilities,
including all site improvements and
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, by contract let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract for the making
of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of improving certain Cityowned recreation facilities, including all site improvements and appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto, authorized by Sections 1
and 2 of this ordinance, for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by the direct employment of the necessary labor and the purchase or
rental of the necessary supplies and
materials for the making of such
improvements,
with
a
separate
accounting as to each improvement
so made.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the items
comprising the necessary supplies
and materials for said improvement,
including the rental of necessary
equipment, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more firms
of architectural, landscaping archi-

6
tectural or engineering consultants
and other consultants necessary for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
implement the public improvements
authorized by Sections 1 and 2 of
this ordinance.
Section 6. That the selection of
said consultants for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties from a list of qualified
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties for the purpose of
compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 7. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: furniture and equipment
necessary for the above mentioned
public improvements.
Section 8. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, rehabilitating,
renovating,
replacing,
upgrading,
securing or otherwise improving certain
City-owned
health
centers,
including all site improvements and
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health, by contract let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 10. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of improving certain Cityowned or leased health centers,
including all site improvements and
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, authorized by Sections 8 and 9 of this ordinance, for
the Division of Health, Department
of Public Health, by the direct
employment of the necessary labor
and the purchase or rental of the
necessary supplies and materials for
the making of such improvements,
with a separate accounting as to
each improvement so made.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all

The City Record
of the items comprising the necessary supplies and materials for said
improvement, including the rental of
necessary equipment, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Health,
Department of Public Health.
Section 12. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to employ by contract or contracts
one or more firms of architectural,
landscaping architectural or engineering consultants and other consultants necessary for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
public improvements authorized by
Sections 8 and 9 of this ordinance.
Section 13. That the selection of
said consultants for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Health from a list
of qualified consultants available
for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Health for the purpose of compiling
such a list. The compensation to be
paid for such services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts herein authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 14. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the following items: furniture and
equipment necessary for the above
mentioned public improvements.
Section 15. That the costs of all
the improvements, professional services and other contracts authorized
herein shall be paid from Fund No.
10 SF 166, Request No. 23262.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Public
Health, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Public
Health,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2007-98.
By Councilmen Jackson, Sweeney,
Zone and Johnson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections
3167.01,
3167.02,
3167.03,
3167.04 and 3167.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 2784-87,
passed December 21, 1987, relating
to flood plain management.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 3167.01,
3167.02, 3167.03, 3167.04 and 3167.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordi-

1922

November 18, 1998
nance No. 2784-87, passed December
21, 1987, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 3167.01 Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
(a)
It is the
purpose of this chapter to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public
and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
(1) Protect human life and health;
(2) Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
(3) Minimize the need for rescue
and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken
at the expense of the general public;
(4) Minimize prolonged business
interruptions;
(5) Minimize damage to public
facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone
and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
(6) Help maintain a stable tax
base by providing for the proper use
and development of areas of special
flood hazard so as to minimize
future flood blight areas;
(7) Ensure that potential buyers
are aware that property is in an
areas of special flood hazard; and
(8) Ensure that those who occupy
the areas of special flood hazard
assume
responsibility
for
their
actions.
(b)
In order to accomplish its
purposes,
this
chapter
includes
methods and provisions for:
(1) Restricting or prohibiting uses
which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in flood heights or velocities;
(2) Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected
against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;
(3) Controlling the alteration of
natural flood plains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers,
which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
(4) Controlling filling, grading,
dredging and other development
which may increase flood damage;
and
(5) Preventing or regulating the
construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters
or which may increase flood hazards
in other areas.
Section 3167.02 Definitions
Unless specifically defined below,
words or phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give
them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter
its most reasonable application.
(a) “Accessory structure” means a
structure on the same lot with, and
of a nature customarily incidental
and subordinate to, the principal
structure.
(b) “Appeal” means a request for
a review of the Commissioner of
Building and Housing.
(c) “Area of special flood hazard”
means the land in the flood plains
within a community subject to a one
percent (1%) or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. Areas of
special flood hazard are designated
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as Zone A, AE, AH,
AO, A1-30, and A99.

November 18, 1998
(d) “Base flood” means the flood
having a one percent (1%) chance
of being equalled or exceeded in
any given year. The base flood may
also be referred to as the one hundred (100) year flood.
(e) “Basement” means any area of
the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
sides.
(f)
“Development”
means
any
man-made change to improved or
unimproved real estate, including
but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading,
paving,
excavation
or
drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
(g) “Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”)” means the
agency with the overall responsibility for administering the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(h) “Flood” or “flooding” means a
general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
(1) The overflow of inland or
tidal waters, and/or
(2) The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
(i) “Flood Insurance Rate Map
(“FIRM”)” means an official map on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated the
areas of special flood hazard.
(j) “Flood Insurance Study” means
the official reporting which the Federal
Emergency
Management
Agency has provided flood profiles,
floodway boundaries and the water
surface elevations of the base flood.
(k) “Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1)
foot.
(l) “Functionally dependent use”
means a use which cannot perform
its intended purpose unless it is
located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes
only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair
facilities,
but
does
not
include, long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
(m) “Historic Structure” means
any structure that is:
(1) Listed individually in the
National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S.
Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary
of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listings
on the National Register;
(2)
Certified
or
preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary
to qualify as a registered historic
district;
(3) Individually listed on a state
inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs
which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; and
(4) Individually listed on a local
inventory of historic places in communities with historic preservation
programs that have been certified
either:
A. By an approved state program
as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
B. Directly by the Secretary of the
Interior in states without approved
programs.

The City Record
(n) “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in
an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s lowest
floor; provided that such enclosure
is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in this ordinance for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
(o) “Manufactured home” means a
structure, transportable in one or
more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed
for use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the
required utilities. It includes park
trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days.
The term “manufactured home” does
not include a “recreational vehicle”.
(p) “Manufactured home park”
means
a
parcel
(or
contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or
more manufactured home lots for
rent. This definition shall exclude
any manufactured home park as
defined in Section 3733.01 of the
Ohio Revised Code, for which the
Public Health Council has exclusive
rule making power.
(q) “Manufactured home subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or
more manufactured home lots for
sale. This definition shall exclude
any manufactured home park as
defined in Section 3733.01 of the
Ohio Revised Code, for which the
Public Health Council has exclusive
rule making power.
(r)
“New
construction”
means
structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after
the effective date of the Division of
Building and Housing’s Flood Insurance Rate Map, and includes any
subsequent improvement to such
structures.
(s) “Recreational vehicle” means
a vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis, (2) 400 square feet or
less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, (3) designed
to be self-propelled or permanently
towable by a light duty truck, and
(4) designed primarily not for use
as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.
(t) “Start of construction” means
the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement, or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either
the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction
does
not
include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor
does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does
it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations
or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation
on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
occupied as dwelling units or not
part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual
start of construction means the first

1923

7
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of a
building.
(u) “Structure” means a walled
and roofed building, manufactured
home, or gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground.
(v) “Substantial damage” means
damage of any origin sustained by
a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50 percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
(w)
“Substantial
improvement”
means any repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of
the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement.
This term includes structures which
have incurred “substantial damage”,
regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include:
(1) Any project for improvement
of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official
and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
(2) Any alteration of a “historic
structure”, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
(3) Any improvement to a structure which is considered new construction.
(x) “Variance” is a grant of relief
to a person from the requirements
of this chapter consistent with the
variance conditions herein.
Section 3167.03 General Provisions
(a)
This chapter shall apply to
all areas of special flood hazards
within the jurisdiction of the City of
Cleveland as identified by the Federal
Emergency
Management
Agency, including any additional
flood hazard areas annexed by the
City of Cleveland that are not identified on the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map.
(b)
The areas
of special flood hazard have been
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled “Flood Insurance Study for the
City of Cleveland”. This study, with
accompanying Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps dated August 1,
1978, and any revisions thereto is
hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Study is on
file with the Clerk of Council, 216
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, 44114, in
File No. 2784-87-A.
(c)
Unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in Section
3167.04, no structure or land shall
hereafter be located, erected, constructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without
full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses
within the jurisdiction of this chapter.

8
(d)
This chapter is not
intended to repeal, abrogate or
impair
any
existing
easements,
covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and another
codified
ordinance,
easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the
more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(e)
In the interpretation and application of this
chapter, all provisions shall be:
(1)
Considered
as
minimum
requirements;
(2) Liberally construed in favor of
Council; and
(3) Deemed neither to limit nor
repeal any other powers granted
under State statutes. Where a provision of this chapter may be in conflict with a State law, such State
law shall take precedence over this
chapter.
(f)
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations.
Larger floods can and will occur on
rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages.
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the City of Cleveland, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
Section 3167.04 Administration
(a)
A Development Permit shall
be obtained from the Commissioner
of Building and Housing before construction
or
development
begins
within any area of special flood hazard established in division (b) of
Section 3167.03. Application for a
Development Permit shall be made
on forms furnished by the Commissioner of Building and Housing and
may include, but not be limited to:
site
specific
topographic
plans
drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations
of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of
materials, drainage facilities, and
the location of the foregoing. The
following information is required:
(1) Elevation in relation to mean
sea level, of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed structures located in special flood hazard
areas where base flood elevation
data are utilized;
(2) Elevation in relation to mean
sea level to which any proposed
structure will be floodproofed in
accordance with division (b)(2)A. of
Section 3167.05 where base flood elevation data are utilized.
(3) Certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for
any nonresidential structure meet
the floodproofing criteria in division
(b)(2)A. of Section 3167.05; and
(4) Description of the extent to
which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development and certification by a registered professional
engineer that the flood carrying
capacity of the watercourse will not
be diminished.

The City Record
(b)
An application
for a development permit shall not
be required for maintenance work
such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing, or for small development activities (except for filling
and grading) valued at less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(c)
The Commissioner of Building and Housing
is hereby appointed to administer
and implement this chapter by
granting or denying development
permits applications in accordance
with its provisions.
(d)
Duties of the Commissioner of Building and Housing shall
include but are not limited to:
(1)
A. Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have
been satisfied.
B. Review all development permits to assure that all necessary
permits have been received from
those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies
from
which
prior approval is required. The
applicant shall be responsible for
obtaining such permits as required
including permits issued by the
Department of the Army under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors
Act and Section 404 of the Clean
Water Act.
C. Review all development permits
to determine if the proposed development is located within a designated
floodway.
Floodways
are
delineated in the Flood Boundary
and Floodway Map or the Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the Flood
Insurance Study. Floodways may
also be delineated in other sources
of flood information. If the proposed
development is located within a designated floodway, assure that the
encroachment provision of division
(b)(6)A. of Section 3167.05 is met.
(2)
Areas of
special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data have not been
provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in accordance
with division (b) of Section 3167.03
are designated at Zone A on the
community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map. Within these areas, the Commissioner of Building and Housing
shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a Federal, State or other source, in order
to administer division (b)(1) of Section 3167.05; division (b)(2) of Section 3167.05; and division (b)(6) of
Section 3167.05.
(3)
A. Where base flood elevation
data are utilized within areas of
special flood hazard on a community’s Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map, regardless of the source of such data, the
following provisions shall apply:
1. Obtain and record the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor, including
basement, of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether
or not such structures contain an
enclosure below the lowest floor.
2. For all new or substantially
improved flood proofed structures:
a. Verify and record the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure was
flood proofed; and

1924

November 18, 1998
b. Maintain the floodproofing certifications
required
in
division
(a)(3) of this section.
B. Maintain for public inspection
all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.
(4)
A. The Commissioner of Engineering and Construction shall notify adjacent communities and the
Ohio
Department
of
Natural
Resources, Division of Water, prior
to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. A
watercourse is considered to be
altered if any change occurs within
its banks.
B. Maintain engineering documentation required in division (c) (4) of
Section 3167.04 that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse
will not be diminished.
C. Require that all necessary
maintenance will be provided for by
the applicant for the altered or relocated portion of such watercourse so
that the flood carrying capacity will
not be diminished.
(5)
Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of
the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). Where a
map boundary and elevations disagree, the elevations delineated in
the flood elevation profile shall prevail. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to appeal
the interpretation as provided in
division (e) of Section 3167.04.
(e)
(1)
A. The Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals as
established by the Charter shall
hear
and
decide
appeals
and
requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
B. Such Board shall hear and
decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement,
decision or determination made by
the Commissioners of Building and
Housing and Engineering and Construction in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
C. Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board or any taxpayer,
may appeal such decision to the
Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, as provided in RC
Chapter 2506.
D. In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and
1. The danger that materials may
be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
2. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
3. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such
damage on the individual owner;
4. The importance of the services
provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
5. The availability of alternative
locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
6. The necessity to the facility of
a waterfront location, where applicable;

November 18, 1998
7. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
8. The relationship of the proposed
use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program
for that area;
9. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
10. The expected heights, velocity,
duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters, and
the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site; and
11. The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems, and
streets and bridges.
E. Upon consideration of the factors of division (e)(1)D. of this section and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals may attach
such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
F. The Secretary of the Board of
Building Standards and Building
Appeals shall maintain the records
of all appeal actions and report any
variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
2.
A. Generally, variances may be
issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood level,
providing items 1 through 11 in division (e)(1)D. of this section have
been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond this one-half
acre,
the
technical
justification
required for issuing the variance
increases.
B. Variances may be issued for
the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as
a historic structure and the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
C. Variances shall not be issued
within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during
the base flood discharge would
result.
D. Variances shall only be issued
upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
E. Variances shall only be issued
upon:
1. A showing of good and sufficient cause;
2. A determination that failure to
grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
3. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights beyond that
which is allowed in this chapter,
additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public as identified
in division (e)(1)D. of this section
or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
F. Variances may be issued by a
community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for
other development necessary for the
conduct of a functionally dependent

The City Record
use provided that the criteria of
division (e)(2)A. to E. of this section are met, and the structure or
other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety.
G. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will be
permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood
elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate
with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
Section
3167.05
Provisions
for
Flood Hazard Reduction
(a)
In all
areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required by
the Commissioner of Building and
Housing:
(1)
A. All new construction and substantial
improvements
shall
be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
B. All manufactured homes not
otherwise regulated by the Ohio
Revised Code pertaining to manufactured
home
parks
shall
be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not to be limited to, use of overthe-top or frame ties to ground
anchors.
(2)
A. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage.
B. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
C. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of
flooding.
(3)
A. The Commissioner of Engineering
and
Construction
shall
require that all new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the
systems.
B. New and replacement sanitary
sewerage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration
of flood waters into the systems and
discharged from the systems into
flood waters.
C. On-site waste disposal systems
shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them
during flooding.
(4)
The
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction shall review all subdivision proposals, including manufactured
home
subdivisions
to
ensure that they shall be consistent
with the need to minimize flood
damage.
A.
All
subdivision
proposals,
including manufactured home subdi-

1925

9
visions, shall have public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage;
B.
All
subdivision
proposals,
including manufactured home subdivisions,
shall
have
adequate
drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
C. Base flood elevation data shall
be provided for subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, and other proposed
developments which contain at least
50 lots or 5 acres (whichever is
less).
D. In all areas of special flood
hazard identified as Zone A on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map where
base flood elevation data are not
available from any source, new construction and substantial improvement of any residential, commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential
structure shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated
to at least two feet above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(b)
In all
areas of special flood hazards where
base flood elevation data have been
provided as set forth in division (b)
of Section 3167.03 or division (d)(2)
of Section 3167.04, the following provisions are required:
(1)
New
construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated to the
base flood elevation.
(2)
New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential
structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood
elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
shall:
A. Be floodproofed so that below
the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of
water;
B. Have structural components
capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy; and
C. Be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for
meeting the standards of this division. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in
division (a)(3) of Section 3167.04.
(3)
An
exemption to the elevation or dry
flood-proofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures
(e.g., sheds, detached garages) containing 576 square feet or less in
gross floor area. Such structures
must meet the encroachment provisions of division (b)(6)A. of this
section and the following additional
standards:
A. They shall not be used for
human habitation;
B. They shall be designed to have
low flood damage potential;
C. They shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to
offer the minimum resistance to the
flow of flood waters;
D. They shall be firmly anchored
to prevent flotation;
E. Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed.

10
(4)
The following standards shall apply to all
new
and
substantially
improved
manufactured homes not subject to
the
manufactured
home
requirements of RC 3733.01.
A. Manufactured homes shall be
anchored in accordance with division (a)(1)B. of this section.
B. Manufactured homes shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above
the base flood elevation. These standards also apply to recreational
vehicles that are either (i) located
on sites for 180 days or more, or (ii)
are not fully licensed and ready for
highway use.
(5)
The following provisions
apply to all new and substantially
improved residential and nonresidential structures which are elevated to or above base flood elevation
using pilings, columns, or posts or
which contain a crawl space. These
structures may enclose the area
below the base flood elevation provided the following conditions are
met:
A. Fully enclosed areas below the
lowest floor that are usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other
than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must:
1. Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect; or,
2 Must meet or exceed the following criteria:
a. A minimum of two openings
having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided;
b. The bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
c. Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers, or other openings
provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
B. Any enclosure which meets
these criteria shall be considered as
having met the requirements of division (a)(1) of this section.
(6)
In all areas of special
flood hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided
in accordance with Section 3167.03 or
Section 3167.04, the following standards apply to all subdivision proposals,
including
manufactured
home subdivisions, and other proposed developments containing at
least 50 lots or 5 acres (whichever
is less);
A. The applicant shall provide
base flood elevation data performed
in accordance with standard engineering practices;
B. If Section 3167.05 is satisfied,
all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction
provisions of division (a) of Section
3167.05 and division (b) of Section
3167.05.
(7)
The Flood Insurance Study referenced in division
(b) of Section 3167.03 identifies a
segment within areas of special
flood hazard known as a floodway.
Floodways may also be delineated
in other sources of flood information
as specified in division (d)(2) of
Section 3167.04. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the

The City Record
velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential. The following provisions apply within all delineated
floodway areas:
A. Prohibit encroachment, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other developments unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that encroachments
shall
not
result
in
any
increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
B. If division (b)(6)A. of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of
Section 3167.05.
C. Any encroachment within the
floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations can
only be granted upon the prior
approval by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. Such requests
must be submitted by the Commission of Building and Housing to the
Federal
Emergency
Management
Agency and must meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
Section 2. That Sections 3167.01,
3167.02, 3167.03, 3167.04 and 3167.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2784-87, passed December
21, 1987, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Public Service, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2008-98.
By Councilmen Jackson, Westbrook and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
a
portion
of
the
funds
obtained from Norfolk Southern and
CSX and authorizing the Director of
Economic Development to employ
professional consultants to design
and
plan
for
noise
mitigation
improvements needed to ameliorate
and mitigate the adverse environmental impacts caused by increased
rail traffic within the City.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 978-98, passed June 8, 1998, and
Ordinance No. 1041-98, passed June
8, 1998, this Council approved and
ratified agreements entered into by
the Mayor with Norfolk Southern
Corporation
(“Norfolk
Southern”)
and CSX Corporation (“CSX”) which,
among other things, required financial contributions to Cleveland from
the railroads in order to ameliorate
and mitigate the adverse environmental impacts in Cleveland resulting from increases in rail traffic by
the railroads as a result of their
acquisition of assets from Conrail
(the “Agreements”); and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
appropriate a portion of the funds
received in accordance with the
Agreements for the purposes of paying the cost of administering the
Agreements and the Community
Impacts Fund established therein;
paying the cost of the City in

1926

November 18, 1998
defending the interests of Cleveland
and its citizens in the proceedings
before the Surface Transportation
Board relating to the acquisition of
Conrail assets by Norfolk Southern
and CSX and during the negotiation
of the Agreements; and retaining
the services of professional consultants to commence the design of and
planning for amelioration and mitigation of the adverse environmental
impacts caused by increased rail
traffic within the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby appropriates a portion of the
funds received from Norfolk Southern and CSX pursuant to the Agreements in the amount of Six Hundred
Fifty-Nine Thousand Four Hundred
Ten Dollars ($659,410.00), from Fund
No. 10 SF 526, for the purposes of
paying the cost of administering the
Agreements and the Community
Impacts Fund; paying the cost of
the City in defending the interests
of Cleveland and its citizens in the
proceedings
before
the
Surface
Transportation Board and during
the negotiation of the Agreements;
and retaining the services of professional consultants for the design
of and planning for noise mitigation
improvements needed to ameliorate
and mitigate the adverse environmental impacts caused by increased
rail traffic within the City, pursuant
to the following schedule:
Personnel . . . . . . . . . .$159,410.00
Other Expenses . . .. . $500,000.00
and further authorizes the Director
of Economic Development to spend
such funds in accordance with this
appropriation.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more professional consultants
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design and plan for noise mitigation
improvements needed to ameliorate
and mitigate the adverse environmental impacts caused by increased
rail traffic within the City of Cleveland.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Economic
Development from a list of qualified
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Economic Development for the purpose of compiling
such a list. The compensation to be
paid for such services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Economic Development, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 10 SF 526,
Request No. 24294.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

November 18, 1998
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2009-98.
By Councilmen Jones, Jackson
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with LH
Development LLC, to provide for the
purpose of repayment of NDIF funds
used to partially finance certain
improvements as part of the Lee
Harvard Shopping Center redevelopment project and to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District, and to declare certain
improvements to real property to be
a public purpose.
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 1270-98,
passed ___________, this Council designated the Lee-Harvard Area Urban
Redevelopment Area (“Area”) and
approved
the
Lee-Harvard
Area
Urban Redevelopment (“Plan”); and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
improvements to real property within the Area and consistent with the
Plan, may be declared to be a public purpose where fee title to such
real property was, at one time, held
by the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1267-98, passed
August 19, 1998, the City acquired
fee title to certain real property
within the Area, which is more particularly described in the documents
set forth in the file described in Section 1 of this ordinance (the “Real
Property”), prior to adoption of this
Ordinance; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
such improvements so declared to be
a public purpose may be exempt
from real property taxation; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.42 of the Ohio Revised Code, the
owners of such improvements may
be required to make annual service
payments in lieu of taxes that
would have been paid had such
improvements not been exempt; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
5709.41 of the Ohio Revised Code,
said exemption may exceed 75% of
such improvements for up to 30
years when a portion of the service
payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School
District (“District”) in an amount
equal to the amount the District
would
have
received
had
the
improvements not been exempt; and
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
City
School District has been notified of
the intent to enter into the agreement authorized herein, in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and
5709.83 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements
to be constructed in the Area by LH
Development LLC (“Redeveloper”),
as more fully described in the plans
contained
in
File
No.
2009-98-A

The City Record
(“Improvements”), on the Real Property, are hereby declared to be a
public purpose, for purposes of Section 5709.41 and 5709.42 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are hereby declared exempt from
real property taxation for a period
of fifteen years; and that in no
event shall the exemption period
extend beyond December 31, 2015.
Section 3. That, pursuant to Section 5709.42 of the Ohio Revised
Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of
the Improvements) shall make service payments for a period of fifteen
years in lieu of said exempt taxes
to the Cuyahoga County Treasurer;
said payments shall be charged and
collected in the same manner, and
shall be in an amount not less than
the taxes that would have been
paid, had the Improvements not
been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the
service payments collected pursuant
to Section 3 hereof shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District in the amount of the taxes that
would have been payable to the district had the Improvements not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an agreement or agreements with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption
and
service
payments
described
herein, including agreements securing the payments described in Section 3 of this Ordinance, which
agreement or agreements shall contain those terms set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
the file referenced in Section 1 of
this Ordinance and such other terms
and conditions as the Directors of
Economic Development and Law
deem necessary to protect the public interest, which agreement(s)
shall contain those terms and conditions as the Directors of Economic Development and Law deem necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 6. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were adopted in open
meetings of this Council, and any of
its committees that resulted in such
formal action were in meetings open
to the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2010-98.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 6 of Ordinance No. 1010-98, passed August 19,
1998, relating to a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with Colonial

1927

11
Market Place, LLC to provide for service payments for the purpose of
repayment of the revenue bonds to be
issued for the purpose of assisting
with the financing of the rehabilitation and redevelopment of the Colonial and Euclid Arcades and to provide for payments to the Cleveland
City School District.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 6 of Ordinance No. 101098, passed August 19, 1998, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into Tax Increment
Financing Agreements with Colonial Market Place, LLCand Market
Place Retail Limited Partnership to
provide for service payments for the
purpose of repayment of the revenue
bonds to be issued for the purpose
of assisting with the financing of
the rehabilitation and redevelopment of the Colonial and Euclid
Arcades and to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District, and to declare certain
improvements to real property to be
a public purpose.
Section 1. That the improvements
to be constructed in the Area by
Colonial Market Place, LLC and Mar ket Place Retail Limited Partnership (together, “Redeveloper”), as
more fully described in the plans
contained
in
File
No.
1010-98-A
(“Improvements”), on the Real Property, are hereby declared to be a
public purpose, for purposes of Section 5709.41 and 5709.42 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 6. That the balance of the
service payments collected pursuant
to Section 3 hereof shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the City of
Cleveland and deposited in the
Arcades Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund created
by Section 4 hereof to pay the principal (whether at maturity or by
prior redemption) of, interest on,
and certain expenses related to
administration of, revenue bonds
issued by the City, pursuant to additional, appropriate legislation of
this Council, or other appropriate
governmental issuer to finance a
portion of the costs of the Improvements, and the costs attributable to
the sale of the Bonds, inclusive of
attorneys’ fees, appraisals and other
similar fees.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 6 of Ordinance
No. 1010-98, passed August 19, 1998,
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

12
Ord. No. 2011-98.
By Councilman Jones (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1267-98, passed August 19, 1998,
relating to the title acquisition to
certain property constituting the
Lee Harvard Shopping Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1267-98,
passed August 19, 1998, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire title to certain property constituting the Lee
Harvard Shopping Center and to
reconvey title to such property to
LHDevelopment LLC; and authorizing the execution of various agreements, certifications, and other documents related thereto.
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended, the commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is hereby
authorized to acquire the title to all
property comprising the Lee Harvard Shopping Center, as more fully
described in the Council File No.
1267-98-B,
and
to
subsequently
reconvey title to such property to
LH Development LLC, consistent
with the requirements of Section
5709.41(B)(1) of the Ohio Revised
code, provided that the consideration for such conveyances shall be
nominal consideration as determined
by the Board of Control. The Mayor
and commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies are hereby authorized to
execute any and all documents necessary or appropriate to effectuate
the transactions authorized herein.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 126798, passed August 19, 1998, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2012-98.
By Councilman Jones (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 and 4 of Ordinance No.
1276-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating to authorizing the Director of
Economic Development to enter into
various agreements to provide economic development financial assistance for the redevelopment of the
Lee Harvard Shopping Center; and
to repeal the first whereas clause
thereof.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 4 of
Ordinance No. 1276-98, passed July
29, 1998, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development (“Director”)
is hereby authorized to enter into a
contract with LHDevelopment LLC
(“Redeveloper”) to provide economic
development assistance for the redevelopment of the Lee Harvard Shopping Center, located at the southeast
corner of Lee and Harvard Roads in
Cleveland, Ohio and as further
described in File No. 1276-98-A (“Project site”). The costs of said contract shall not exceed Two Million
dollars ($2,000,000) and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF501, request No.
24291.
Section 4. That the terms of the
contracts described and authorized
herein shall be in accordance with
the executive summary contained in
File No. 1276-98-B, and shall be in
accordance with applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations, together with such other
terms as the director shall deem necessary and appropriate to effectuate
the intent of the Project.
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 4 and the first whereas clause
of Ordinance No. 1276-98, passed July
29, 1998, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2013-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Northeast Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners/holiday
lights across E. 161st and Waterloo,
16006
Waterloo,
15812
Waterloo,
15800
Waterloo,
15712
Waterloo,
15704 Waterloo, E. 157th and Waterloo, 15610 Waterloo, 15602 Waterloo,
15504
Waterloo,
15430
Waterloo,
15414
Waterloo,
15322
Waterloo,
15300
Waterloo,
15311
Waterloo,
Slov. Home Parking, 15425 Waterloo,
15509 Waterloo, 15515 Waterloo, 382
E. 156th St., 376 E. 156th St., 362 E.
156th St., 15613 Waterloo, 15718
Waterloo,
15813
Waterloo,
16005
Waterloo and 16021 Waterloo, for
the period from November 16, 1998
to January 8, 1999, inclusive, publicizing the Holiday Season.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Northeast Shores Development Corporation to install, maintain and remove

1928

November 18, 1998
banners/holiday lights across E.
161st and Waterloo (pole nos. A4075
& 18060), 16006 Waterloo, 15812
Waterloo, 15800 Waterloo (pole no.
A2784), 15712 Waterloo (pole no.
A2783), 15704 Waterloo (pole no.
A2782), E. 157th and Waterloo, 15610
Waterloo,
15602
Waterloo,
15504
Waterloo (pole no. A2778), 15430
Waterloo, 15414 Waterloo (pole no.
A2775), 15322 Waterloo, 15300 Waterloo, 15311 Waterloo, Slov. Home
Parking (pole no. 723804), 15425
Waterloo (pole no. 723082), 15509
Waterloo (pole no. 518480), 15515
Waterloo (pole no. A2720), 382 E.
156th St., 376 E. 156th St., 362 E.
156th St. (pole no. A2672), 15613
Waterloo,
15718
Waterloo,
15813
Waterloo, 16005 Waterloo and 16021
Waterloo (pole no. 523906), for the
period from November 16, 1998 to
January 8, 1999, inclusive. Said banners/holiday
lights
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banners/holiday
lights
will
be
hung
must
be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners/holiday
lights
and
said
banners/holiday
lights
shall
be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2014-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Northeast Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners/holiday
lights across East 185th Street at
18482 Lakeshore Blvd., 542 East
185th Street, 632 East 185th Street,
694 East 185th Street, 726 East 185th
Street, 782 East 185th Street, 832
East 185th Street, 910 East 185th
Street and 1010 East 185th Street, for
the period from November 30, 1998
to January 5, 1999, inclusive, publicizing the Holiday Season.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Northeast Shores Development Corporation to install, maintain and remove
banners/holiday lights across East
185th Street at 18482 Lakeshore
Blvd., 542 East 185th Street, 632 East

November 18, 1998
185th Street, 694 East 185th Street,
726 East 185th Street, 782 East 185th
Street, 832 East 185th Street, 910
East 185th Street and 1010 East
185th Street, for the period from
November 20, 1998 to January 5,
1999, inclusive. Said banners/holiday
lights shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banners/holiday lights will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banners/holiday
lights
and
said
banners/holiday
lights shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2018-98.
By Councilmen Melena and Cintron.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the Kilometers for
Kids on May 2, 1999, sponsored by
West Side Ecumenical Ministries.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Kilometers for
Kids, sponsored by the West Side
Ecumenical Ministries, on May 2,
1999, beginning at the West Side
Market lot, west on Lorain across
West 25th, north on West 25th to
West 28th, north on West 28th to
Bridge, west on Bridge to West 38th,
north on West 38th to Franklin,
west on Franklin to West 65th,
north on West 65th to West Clinton,
east on West Clinton to West 58th,
north on West 58th to Detroit, east
on Detroit to 5209 Detroit, WSEM’s
Administrative Center, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police or safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

The City Record
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2020-98.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the Turkey Trot
Race on November 26, 1998, sponsored by Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Turkey Trot
Race, sponsored by Hermes Race
Systems, on November 26, 1998,
beginning with a 1 mile fun walk
starting inside Burke Lakefront Airport Driveway, exits the entrance
driveway and proceeds eastbound on
the North Marginal to just before
the curve and turns around to go
westbound on the North Marginal
where it re-enters where it came out.
The 5K run steps off from airport
driveway and leaves through the
entrance
drive
proceeding
westbound on the North Marginal down
Erieside around the stadium, southbound on W. 3rd Rd. to Lakeside,
westbound on Lakeside down under
the bridge to W. 9th where it turns
onto Front Street and goes to W.
10th, turning southbound to St. Clair,
runners turn up the St. Clair hill and
proceed eastbound on St. Clair to W.
3rd where they turn northbound
onto W. 3rd and go to Lakeside
where they turn eastbound and go
down Lakeside to E. 9th, runners
turn northbound onto E. 9th, staying
in the west curb lane and go to the
exit ramp of 90 where they go down
the exit ramp (curb lane-coned off)
and wrap around the Amtrack Station and then proceed eastbound on
to the South Marginal. At E. 26th,
they cross over the freeway and
then proceed westbound onto the
North Marginal where they finish
inside the Airport, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1929

13
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2015-98.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jones, Patmon,
Melena,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Polensek,
Jackson,
Johnson
and
Dolan.
An emergency resolution urging
the President of the United States to
request an investigation of the
Ugandan Tuberculosis Study and
other medical research practices
where experiments are conducted on
patient populations who are diagnosed with a specific health disease
to determine the effectiveness of
new drugs and medications in treating certain diseased conditions and
if such research can be harmful to
the health of those participants in
such studies.
Whereas, the Monday, November 9,
1998, Cleveland Plain Dealer Newspaper carried the news article entitled “Living Proof, Ugandans in
American-run study expected treatment, but some pills were dummies”
that reported a study sponsored by
the United States Government conducted by Researchers for Case
Western Reserve University and the
Center for Disease Control on a
population of 2,018 Ugandans with
HIV and latent tuberculosis; and
Whereas, this medical research
study had randomly assigned this
specific
population
to
different
groups that consisted of a treated
and untreated group; and
Whereas, the untreated control
group was not to be given antituberculosis medications until being
fully diagnosed with the disease,
which constituted withholding a
proven drug from a patient population in need of such medication; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is concerned about the
research methodology of such medical experiments by medical centers
and universities specializing in medical research that are being conducted on certain populations of
individuals who have specific diseases in order to determine the
effectiveness of new or present
drugs in treating certain diseases,
while withholding such medications
from a control group population who
have been diagnosed with a specific health disease; and
Whereas, the untreated control
group population in such studies do
not receive any kind of medication
or therapy to treat their diseased
condition, which can exacerbate
their medical condition and places
them at further risk of deteriorating
health; now, therefore.
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland urges the President of the United States, the Ohio
House of Representatives and members of Congress to strongly urge
the United States Federal Government to conduct a full scale investigation on these controversial medical research practices and to determine if another more appropriate
alternative can be identified where
the health of those individuals participating in such experiments are
not put at risk.

14
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution to the President of the
United States, Donna Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services,
Ohio Senate, Ohio House of Representatives, Ohio Senators John H.
Glenn and Michael DeWine, and
United States Congressmen Louis
Stokes and Dennis Kucinich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2016-98.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 3061
Payne Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
5237927, Little Kings Lounge Inc.,
3009 Payne Ave., 1st Fl. & Patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, to Permit No.
52379270001, Little Kings Lounge
Inc., DBA Little Kings Lounge, 3061
Payne Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44114;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of location of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
5237927, Little Kings Lounge Inc.,
3009 Payne Ave., 1st Fl. & Patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, to Permit No.
52379270001, Little Kings Lounge
Inc., DBA Little Kings Lounge, 3061
Payne Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44114
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2017-98.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 6017 Quincy
Ave., and repealing Res. No. 1056-98,
objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 6017 Quincy Ave., by Res. No.
1056-98, adopted June 8, 1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
6017 Quincy Ave., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1056-98, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate issuance thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2019-98.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 16826 Lake
Shore Blvd.

1930

November 18, 1998
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 5827053, Melo
Tavern Inc., 16826 Lake Shore Blvd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
16826 Lake Shore Blvd. Inc., 16826
Lake Shore Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio
44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 5827053, Melo
Tavern Inc., 16826 Lake Shore Blvd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
16826 Lake Shore Blvd. Inc., 16826
Lake Shore Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio
44110 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

November 18, 1998
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1082-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend funds and to
enter into contract with various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of the Emergency Shelter Grant
Program and with Cuyahoga County for the operation of the Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of
Homeless Services.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, when, amended as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 4 and 5 to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 4. That the board of each
of the non-profit agencies funded by
this ordinance must include at least
two former or current homeless
clients and two employees of the
non-profit agencies funded pursuant
to this ordinance. The two employees shall not be employed by the
agency on whose board they are
members. These individuals must
join the board of these agencies
within 6 months of receiving funds
pursuant to this ordinance.
That the non-profit agencies to be
funded pursuant to this ordinance,
shall
work
with
the
Cleveland
Department of Health to provide
testing opportunities and prevention
information on HIV, sexually transmitted diseases and other communicable diseases. The employees of
these agencies must be trained in
the prevention and education of
these diseases.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by Sections 1 and 2 of
this ordinance shall be in the
amounts described in the Funding
Recommendations contained in File
No. 1082-98-A. If these funding recommendations are changed, or if
new agencies are added to the list,
the Director of Community Development must receive Council authorization before entering into a contract or contracts for the new
amount or with the added agency.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 4
and 5, respectively, to new “Section
6” and “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 1598-98.
By Councilman Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 200th Street,
Elsmere Avenue S.W., West 198th
Street, West 191st Street, Wagner
Place S.W., Maplewood Avenue S.W.,
and Maplewood Avenue S.W. hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on Public Service; Recommended
by Committees on City Planning
Commission, Finance.
Ord. No. 1723-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the
Ohio
Department
of
Public
Health for the STD - Diagnostic and
Treatment Services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance, when amended as follows:

The City Record
1. In the title, line 3, strike “and
accept”.
2. In Section 1, line 2, strike “and
accept”; and in line 5, insert a period after “Services” and strike the
remainder of the section.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 1817-98.
By Councilmen Gordon, Jackson
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Gergel-Kellem
Company, Inc. and G-K LTDd.b.a.
Watt Printers to provide for a ten
(10) year abatement for certain tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to renovate and to acquire machinery and
equipment at their facility located
at 4544 Hinckley Industrial Parkway, in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community
and
Economic
Development,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, at the end, add
the following: “The terms of said
file notwithstanding, the terms of
the tax abatement shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable
to any entity, without the prior legislative authorization of City Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1814-98.
By Councilman Dolan (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service
to issue a permit to Fairview
Health System to encroach into the
aerial rights-of-way of Old Lorain
Road with a new hospital building,
pedestrian
bridge
and
support
columns.
Approved by Directors Public Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 20. Nays. 0.
Ord. No. 1895-98.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Ordinance No. 1737-98, passed September
28,
1998
concerning
the
change of a street name.
Approved by Directors Public Service, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committee on Public Service.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 20. Nays. 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1644-97.
By Councilman Jackson (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Ameritech to
encroach into the public right-ofway of East 40th Street at Carnegie
Avenue with an above-ground telephone equipment cabinet to provide
services in this area.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

1931

15
Ord. No. 1651-97.
By Councilmen Jones, Johnson,
Jackson, Rybka and Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located in Block A of the Cleveland
Industrial Park to West 25th Street
Partners.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1264-98.
By Councilmen Jackson, Willis,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to transfer property
described as property located on
Marshall Avenue, to the control,
possession and use of the Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1265-98.
By Councilmen Jackson, Willis,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to transfer property
described as Permanent Parcel Nos.
004-02-036 and 004-02-037, to the control, possession and use of the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1600-98.
By Councilman Cintron (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Stone Court N.W.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1610-98.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Boise Cascade
Office Products to provide for a ten
year abatement for certain tangible
personal property and real estate
taxes as an incentive to relocate and
expand its facilities to 17909 Cleveland Parkway in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1724-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to apply for and accept
grants from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency
for financial assistance for the
operation of the Division of Environment;
and
authorizing
said
director to enter into contracts for
the purchase of equipment and
supplies necessary to implement
the program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1726-98.
By Councilmen Coats and Johnson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from

16
the Department of Justice - Office
for State & Local Domestic Preparedness for the State & Local
Domestic Preparedness Equipment
Support Program, and to enter into
contract for the purchase of equipment necessary to implement the
Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1729-98.
By Councilmen White, Jackson,
Rybka and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on Miles Avenue to Rite Aid
of Ohio, Inc.; and reserving certain
easement rights for the public purpose of ingress, egress and street
widening.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1766-98.
By Councilmen Cintron, Gordon and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to apply for and accept a grant
from
the
Ohio
Department
of
Health for the Infant Mortality
Reduction (Initiative) Grant; and to
enter into contract with Lutheran
Metropolitan Ministry to implement
the program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1812-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract
of
paper
stock
and
envelopes, for the various divisions
of City government.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1813-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of messenger services, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 1613-98.
By Councilman Westbrook (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate all that portion of Sommer Court, N.W.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1614-98.
By Councilman Rybka (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate portions of
Harvard Pl. S.E. and an Unnamed
Alley West of Harvard Pl. S.E. and
Northerly of Harvard Ave.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1615-98.
By Councilman Melena (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate all that portion of West 62nd Place.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1859-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Budget Commission
and authorizing the necessary tax
levies certifying them to the County Auditor.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1860-98.
By
Councilman
Johnson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution requesting the County Auditor to make tax
advances during the year 1999, pursuant to Section 321.34, Ohio Revised
Code.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Councilman Coats, seconded by
Councilman Zone and unanimously
carried that the absence of Councilman Patricia J. Britt be and is hereby authorized.
The Council adjourned at 8:05 p.m.
to meet at 7:00 p.m. on Monday,
November 23, 1998.

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1082-98.
By Councilmen Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend funds and to
enter into contract with various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of the Emergency Shelter Grant
Program and with Cuyahoga County for the operation of the Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of
Homeless Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to expend funds and
enter into contract with various nonprofit agencies for the implementation of the Emergency Shelter Grant
Program.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance shall be in an amount not to
exceed $1,208,000.00, and shall be
paid from Fund No. 13 SF 874 and
RL 23113.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cuyahoga County to operate
the Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services.
Section 4. That the board of each
of the non-profit agencies funded by
this ordinance must include at least

1932

November 18, 1998
two former or current homeless
clients and two employees of the
non-profit agencies funded pursuant
to this ordinance. The two employees shall not be employed by the
agency on whose board they are
members. These individuals must
join the board of these agencies
within 6 months of receiving funds
pursuant to this ordinance.
That the non-profit agencies to be
funded pursuant to this ordinance,
shall
work
with
the
Cleveland
Department of Health to provide
testing opportunities and prevention
information on HIV, sexually transmitted diseases and other communicable diseases. The employees of
these agencies must be trained in
the prevention and education of
these diseases.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by Sections 1 and 2 of
this ordinance shall be in the
amounts described in the Funding
Recommendations contained in File
No. 1082-98-A. If these funding recommendations are changed, or if
new agencies are added to the list,
the Director of Community Development must receive Council authorization before entering into a contract or contracts for the new
amount or with the added agency.
Section 6. That the cost of said
contract authorized in Section 3 of
this ordinance shall be in an amount
not to exceed $45,000.00 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 14 SF 023 and
RL 23113.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1598-98.
By Councilman Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 200th Street,
Elsmere Avenue S.W., West 198th
Street, West 191st Street, Wagner
Place S.W., Maplewood Avenue S.W.,
and Maplewood Avenue S.W. hereinafter described.
Ord. No. 1723-98.
By Councilmen Gordon and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for a grant from the Ohio
Department of Public Health for the
STD - Diagnostic and Treatment Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for a grant in the approximate amount of $126,000, and any
other funds as they become available during the grant term, from the
Ohio Department of Public Health,
to conduct the STD - Diagnostic and
Treatment Services.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1723-98-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

November 18, 1998
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1817-98.
By Councilmen Gordon, Jackson
and
Johnson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Gergel-Kellem
Company, Inc. and G-K LTD d.b.a.
Watt Printers to provide for a ten
(10) year abatement for certain tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to renovate and to acquire machinery and
equipment at their facility located at
4544 Hinckley Industrial Parkway, in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Gergel-Kellem Company,
Inc. and G-K LTDd.b.a. Watt Printers (the “Enterprise”) has proposed
to renovate and to acquire machinery and equipment at their facility
located at 4544 Hinckley Industrial
Parkway; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
approves
the
application
of
Gergel-Kellem Company, Inc. and GK
LTDd.b.a.
Watt
Printers
for
enterprise zone incentives on the
basis that Gergel-Kellem Company,
Inc. and G-K LTDd.b.a. Watt Printers
are
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Gergel-Kellem
Company, Inc. and G-K LTDd.b.a.
Watt Printers to provide for a ten
(10) year abatement for certain tan-

The City Record
gible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to renovate and to acquire machinery and
equipment at their facility located
at 4544 Hinckley Industrial Parkway in Cleveland Ohio; said abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance
with the terms as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
File No. 1817-98-A. The terms of said
file notwithstanding, the terms of the
tax abatement shall not be amended,
nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization of City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

BOARD OF CONTROL
November 11, 1998
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 11,
1998, at 11:00 a.m., with Mayor White
presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director
Borokhovich,
Directors
Guzman,
Staib,
Acting
Director
Terry, Directors Jackson, Hudecek,
Nolan, Warren and Axelrod.
Absent: None.
Others: William A. Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Laura A. Williams, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 754-98.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Orion Painting & Contracting,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
Painting of Streetside Elements (all
items) for the Division of various
divisions
of
City
Government,
Department of Finance, for the period of two (2) years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract
received on September 10, 1998, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 293-98, passed March 23, 1998,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to approximately One Hundred Seventy Thousand Six Hundred-Fifty and 00/100
Dollars, ($170,650.00), (Net), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Direc-

1933

17
tor of Finance is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 110588
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eighty
Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($85,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 755-98.
By Director Balraj.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of American Merchandising Services
(MBE) for an estimated quantity of
De-icing Agents Item No. 1 (Urea),
Items No. 2a and No. 2b (Potassium
Acetate) and Items No. 3a and No.
3b (Sodium Formate), for the Division of various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two (2) years commencing
with the execution of a contract
received on the 23rd day of September, 1998, pursuant to the authority
of Ordinance No. 990-98, passed June
15, 1998 on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Two
Million, Four Hundred and EightyOne Thousand, Four Hundred and
00/100 Dollars, ($2,481,400.00) Dollars,
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Port Control is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29907
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred
Twenty-Four
Thousand
and Seventy and 00/100 Dollars
($124,070.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 756-98.
By Director Jackson
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Messina Floor Covering,
Inc., including alternate nos. 1, 2,
and 3, for the public improvement of
City Hall Carpet Replacement, Community Development, for the Divi-

The City Record

18
sion
of
Property
Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, received on July 15,
1998, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance Nos. 1282-96, 321-98, and
1691-98, passed October 14, 1996,
April 6, 1998 and October 19, 1998,
respectively for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of One Hundred Forty Eight
Thousand Three Hundred Seventy
Two
and
No/100
Dollars
($148,372.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractors to Messina Floor Covering, Inc. is hereby approved:
George Allen Construction
Company, Inc.
MBE 25%
Contract Surface Products, Inc.
MBE 23%
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 757-98.
By Director Jackson.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of U.S. Office Products, base bid
Nos. 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9, for the public
improvement of New Office Furniture
for Cleveland City Hall, Civil Service/Personnel, for the Division of
Property Management, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
received on October 22, 1998, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1282-96 passed October 14, 1996, for a
gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Twelve
Thousand
Nine
Hundred
Eighty
Eight and 52/100 Dollars ($12,988.52),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 758-98.
By Director Jackson.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Today’s Office, Inc., base
bid No. 5, for the public improvement of New Office Furniture for
Cleveland
City
Hall,
Civil
Service/Personnel, for the Division of
Property Management, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
received on October 22, 1998, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1282-96 passed October 14, 1996,
for a gross price for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
Two
Thousand
Seven
Hundred
Eighty Eight and 68/100 Dollars
($2,788.68), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for

said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 759-98.
By Director Jackson.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Boise Cascade Office
Products, base bid Nos. 1, 2, and 7,
for the public improvement of New
Office Furniture for Cleveland City
Hall, Civil Service/Personnel, for
the Division of Property Management, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, received on
October 22, 1998, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1282-96
passed October 14, 1996, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of Twenty One
Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty Three
and No/100 Dollars ($21,963.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 760-98.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 106-21-060 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1109-98
passed October 12, 1998, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Earthie M. Carter has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1109-98 passed October
12, 1998, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Earthie M. Carter for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 106-21-060, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

1934

November 18, 1998
Resolution No. 761-98.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-15-045 located at 2127 West
10th Street in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or
abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Paul Kapczuk, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of
said parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City
of
Cleveland,
with
Paul
Kapczuk for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00415-045 located at 2127 West 10th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 762-98.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that all bids received on November
4, 1998 for powdered activated carbon for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.24 of the Codified Ordinance of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are hereby
rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

November 18, 1998
Resolution No. 763-98.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 110-10-056 and
110-10-055 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1976-98
passed November 9, 1998, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation or
designee has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1976-98 passed November 9, 1998, by the Cleveland City
Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an official deed for
and on behalf of the City of Cleveland with Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation or
designee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 11010-056 and 110-10-055, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 (each), which amount is
hereby determined to be not less
than the fair market value of said
parcels for uses in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Carter, Carmody, Konicek, Acting
Director Borokhovich, Directors Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors Jackson, Hudecek, Nolan,
Warren and Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All candidates for original entrance positions
who are successful in other parts of
the examinations must submit to a
physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

The City Record
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER30, 1998
9:30 A.M.
Calendar
No.
98-232:
Appeal
of
Charles Murray
Charles F. Murray, dba VHC Inc.,
at 3695 East 131st Street, appeals
under Section 76-6 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland and Section
692.02 of the Codified Ordinances
from the refusal by Commissioner
Robert
Schneider,
Division
of
Assessments
and
Licenses,
to
approve a music license pursuant to
the
recommendation
of
Director
William Denihan, Department of
Public Safety.

19
Section 349.13C where a parking lot
in a residential district requires
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeals
approval
and
Section
349.05(a)
where the proposed parking is to
be 10' away from a residential district and contrary to the landscaping plan required along Althen
Avenue at the parking spaces as
indicated by the Landscaping and
Screening Requirements of Sections
352.10 and 352.11 of the Codified
Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1998

Calendar No. 98-233: 2223 Murray
Hill Road
Murray Hill Properties Ltd., Inc.,
owners c/o Ramona Mesi, president,
appeal to construct a 28' x 70' twostory, 4 dwelling units apartment
building to an existing 28' x 40'
four-suites apartment building all on
a 36' x 201' parcel and located in a
C-1 Multi-Family District on the east
side of Murray Hill at 2223 Murray
Hill Road at 2223 Murray Hill Road,
said construction being contrary to
Section 357.09 where the required
interior side yard is to be 8' and 0'
is proposed and contrary to the lot
area density where in a C district a
maximum 1/2 lot size to gross floor
area or 3618 sq. ft. gross floor area
is permitted and 7376 sq. ft. is proposed per Section 355.04 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-234: 3595 West Park
Road
Bohdan Bodnarchuk, owner, and
Holy Resurrection Orthodox Church,
tenant, and Dale Mitchell, agent,
appeal to change the use of an existing 25' x 40' one-story masonry
retail building into a church located
on a 29' x 146' parcel and located
in a Local Retail Business District
at 3595 West Park Road; said use
being
contrary
to
Section
343.01(b)(1) where uses are allowed
as regulated and contrary to the
Residential
District
Regulations
where in the least restrictive adjoining residential district church use
requires a 15' side yard and 0' is
proposed per Section 357.02(e)(1) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 98-235: 3199 West 25th
Street
Ralph
Gonzales,
owner,
and
Michael Hall, tenant, appeal to renovate an existing 148' x 33' twostory masonry warehouse building
into an auto repair garage on the
first floor, to store cars waiting for
repair in the rear lot and place
storage on the second floor and
construct an 11 car parking lot (to
the east of the 33' x 148' two-story
masonry warehouse building), on a
51' x 91' parcel, all creating an “L”
shaped parcel located in a SemiIndustry District on the east side
of West 25th Street near the corner
of Althen Avenue and West 25th
Street at 3199 West 25th Street;
said renovation being contrary to
Section 345.03C(2) of the Industrial
District Regulations where an auto
repair garage is required to be 100'
away from a residential district
and Section 349.04(g) of the OffStreet and Parking Requirements
where
15
parking
spaces
are
required and 11 are proposed and

1935

At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
26, 1998, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 98-223: 5910 Memphis
Avenue
Ken Frankenberry, owner, and
AutoZone, Inc., prospective purchaser c/o Mark Mox, agent, appealed to
erect a 66' x 115' 4" one-story,
masonry retail store for sales of
auto parts and to install parking
accessory thereto on a 125' x 297'
corner parcel in a General Retail
Business District and a One-Family
District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar
No.
98-202:
Appeal
of
Michael B. Robinson
Michael
B.
Robinson
appealed
under Section 76-6 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland and Section
670.22 of the Codified Ordinances
from the revocation of an armed
security guard license.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 98-224: 3979 Pearl Road
postponed to November 30, 1998.
Calendar No. 98-225: 2265 West 7th
Street postponed to December 7,
1998.
Calendar No. 98-226: 2109 West 7th
Street postponed to December 7,
1998.
Calendar No. 98-227: 2103 West 7th
Street postponed to December 7,
1998.
Calendar No. 98-228: 2119 West 7th
Street postponed to December 7,
1998.
Calendar No. 98-206: 3520 East 116th
Street postponed to December 14,
1998.
Calendar No: 98-215: 3337 Central
Avenue postponed to December 7,
1998.
On Monday, November 16, 1998, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, November 9, 1998, and
said
decisions
to
GRANT
were
approved and adopted by the Board
on November 16, 1998:

The City Record

20
Calendar No. 98-221: 2049 West 106th
Street
Jennings and Zelma Smith, owners, appealed to construct a 19' x
14' one-story frame bedroom and
bathroom addition to the rear of an
existing 19' x 50' one family
dwelling house in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 98-222: 2515 Market
Avenue aka 2528 Lorain Avenue
One Market Square Ltd., Partnership, owner c/o Michael K. Dostal
and
James
Hayes,
appealed
to
change the use and renovate the
second, third and fourth floors of an
existing 45' x 100' four-story masonry commercial building into twelve
residential apartments in a General
Retail District on the northerly side
of Lorain Avenue and the southerly
side of Market Avenue.

Docket A-76-98.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Container Recycling Corp., Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 9520 Richmond Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION FIRE CODE of the Chief of the Division of Fire dated March 24, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 9520 Richmond Avenue
to the Division of Fire for required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

The following appeals were heard
on Monday, November 9, 1998, and
said decision to REFUSE were
approved and adopted by the Board
on November 16, 1998:
Calendar No. 98-169: 6605 Clark
Avenue
1799-1873 Beall Avenue Company
Incorporated, owners c/o Stuart J.
Graines, appealed from the issuance
of a Violation Notice on July 20, 1998
by the Division of Environment,
Department of Public Health.
Calendar No. 98-205: 1906 East 82nd
Street
Madonna Hall, Inc., c/o Ranelle
Gamble, its statutory agent, by and
through their attorney Sheila Cooley, appealed from the Violation
Notice issued August 10, 1998 by the
Department of Public Health.
Calendar No. 98-219: 17721 South
Miles Road, S.E.
John Smith, owner, and Gregory
Jones, tenant, appealed to change
use of the southerly portion of an
existing 136' x 40' one-story masonry warehouse building into an auto
repair garage situated on a 160'x
80' lot in a Semi-Industry District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

Re: Report of the Meeting of
November 11, 1998
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-139-96.
RE: Appeal of Alan Landy, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 4000 East 71st
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - FIRE CODE of the Chief of
the Division of Fire dated April 18,
1996, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action, the docket will be
rescheduled for November 25, 1998.

*

*

*

*

Docket A-140-98.
RE: Appeal of Brent K. Young
and Mark J. Sudduth, Owners of the
Property located on the premises
known as 4400-08 Perkins Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION FIRE CODE of the Chief of the Division of Fire dated July 23, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action this date, the docket
will remain open for any future
appeals and that the advice of the
Board that the Appellants can not
proceed with the foundry activities
until they get a “Certificate Of Occupancy”.
*

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

*

Docket A-132-98.
RE: Appeal of Aetna Properties,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 3603 East
82nd Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire dated June
29, 1998, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled if required.

*

*

Docket A-150-98.
RE: Appeal of John Zubal, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises
known
as
2020
Clark
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - FIRE CODE of the Chief of
the Division of Fire dated June 26,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled in thirty days
(30 das.), December 23, 1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-158-98.
RE:
Appeal
of
LamPro,
Inc.,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 4701 Crayton Avenue/Unit A from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION - FIRE CODE of
the Chief of the Division of Fire
dated August 21, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, that having
reviewed the facts and based on the
evidence presented, a motion is in

1936

November 18, 1998
order at this time to find that a fire
suppression system is required and
to REMAND the property at 4701
Crayton Avenue/Unit A to the Division of Fire for supervision and
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bowes and
seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-160-98.
RE: Appeal of The Bank of New
York, Mortgagee of the Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 3569 West 127th Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MS of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated September 1, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MAIN
STRUCTURE
and
LETTER
OF
INTENTION
TO
DEMOLISH by granting the Appellant three months (3 mos.) from
November 1, 1998 in which to obtain
permits and abate the violations.
Upon passage of this motion, this
matter shall be REMANDED to the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing at the end of
that
time
for
supervision
and
required further action. All other
provisions of the CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MAIN
STRUCTURE
and
LETTER OF INTENT TO DEMOLISH not modified by this decision
shall remain in full force and effect,
including the provisions that the
City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by means of
demolition if abatement of the violations is not completed by February 1, 1999. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Bowes.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-163-98.
RE: Appeal of Scidem, Inc., and
Multi-Care Services, Inc./Madonna
Hall, Inc., Owner (Scidem, Inc.) and
Management of the facility (MultiCare Services, Inc./Madonna Hall,
Inc.) of the ninety-nine (99) bed
nursing home facility located on the
premises known as 1906 East 82nd
Street from NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated August 25, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-163-98 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 25, 1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-165-98.
RE: Appeal of Ian J. Abrams,
Owner of the Commercial One-Story
Steel, Semi-Industry Property located on the premises known as 8300
Bessemer Avenue (Rear) from a 72
HOUR
EMERGENCY
DETERIORATED/MS of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing dated September 22, 1998, requiring compliance with the Codified

The City Record

November 18, 1998
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-165-98 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 9, 1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-169-98.
RE: Appeal of Donald Ksiezyk,
Owner of the Two-story Frame Bar
and Three Dwelling Units located on
the premises known as 5612 Harvard
Avenue from a VACATE/CONDEMNATION ORDER/STOP WORK ORDER/HVAC/ELECTRICAL/PLUMBING of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated August 27, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, that having
reviewed the facts presented, a
motion is in order at this time to
REMAND the property at 5612 Harvard Avenue to the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-170-98.
RE: Appeal of Donald Ksiezyk,
Owner of the One-story Frame Bar
and Three Dwelling Units located
on the premises known as 3127-29
West 25th Street (aka 2416 Kinkel
Avenue) from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - HVAC of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated September 1,
1998, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 3127-29 West 25th Street
(aka 2416 Kinkel Avenue) to the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas:
Messrs
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-173-98.
- RE: Appeal of Michael F. Piszczor Jr., Owner of the Two &
One/Half-Story Frame Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 7940-42 Broadway Avenue
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MAIN STRUCTURE of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated August
26, 1998, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MAIN
STRUCTURE
and
LETTER
OF
INTENTION
TO
DEMOLISH by granting the Appellant two (2 mos.) in which to sell
or rehabilitate the property and to
require that the City recite the new
owner when the property is sold.
Upon passage of this motion, this
matter shall be REMANDED to the

Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing at the end of
that
time
for
supervision
and
required further action. All other
provisions of the CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MAIN
STRUCTURE
and
LETTER OF INTENT TO DEMOLISH not modified by this decision
shall remain in full force and effect,
including the provisions that the
City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by means of
demolition if abatement of the violations is not completed by January
25,
1999.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Bowes and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-174-98.
RE: Appeal of Zachariha Cohen,
Owner of the Single-Family Residential Property located on the
premises known as 17419 Dorchester
Drive from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated August 19, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to REMAND
the property at 17419 Dorchester
Drive to the Division of Building
and Housing for further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-176-98.
RE: Appeal of William and Evelyn Hughes, Owners of the ThreeStory
Masonry
Bar/4
Stores/12
Dwelling
Units
located
on
the
premises known as 8632-36 Buckeye
Road (aka 2641-59 Grand Avenue)
from a VACATE-CONDEMNATION
ORDERS/ELECTRICAL/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE/STOP WORK ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated September 24, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to modify
the Commissioner’s VACATE-CONDEMNATION ORDERS/ELECTRICAL/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE/STOP WORK
ORDER and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting
the Appellant one month (1 mo.) in
which to obtain permits and two (2
mos.) in which to abate the hazardous violations as alienated by
the inspector; if these conditions are
being met, the tenants may remain
in the property. Upon passage of
this motion, this matter shall be
REMANDED to the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing at the end of that time for
supervision and required further
action. All other provisions of the
CONDEMNATION ORDER/ELECTRICAL/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE/STOP
WORK ORDER and LETTER OF
INTENT TO DEMOLISH not modified by this decision shall remain in
full force and effect, including the
provisions that the City may abate
the
nuisance
conditions
of
the

1937

21
premises by means of demolition if
abatement of the violations is not
completed by February 25, 1999.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bowes and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-182-98.
RE: Appeal of Eliza Bryant Center,
Owners
of
the
Adult
Day
Care/Outreach addition located on
the premises known as 7201 Wade
Park Avenue from SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated October 13, 1998,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
The
required
information
has
been submitted, no action will be
taken on the docket this date; the
Board will make a resolution at the
next Board hearing November 25,
1998.
*

*

*

Docket A-194-98.
RE: Appeal of Pentecostal Church
of God, Owner of the Proposed
Church located on the premises
known as 3179 West 25th Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated October
8, 1998, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the proposed use of
the building as a church, noting that
the occupancy will be limited to
two-hundred (200) people; and that
a complete hardwired smoke detection system with audible alarms and
supervised reporting to a supervising authority be installed, and that
visual 24-hour signals be installed
over the door openings into the alley
indicating when the doors are being
opened. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Bowes.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-195-98.
RE: Appeal of Zaremba Bolivar,
Owner of the Four-Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 737 Bolivar Avenue from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated October
5, 1998, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to OBBC Section 1010.2 and
permit the second and third floor to
be occupied as proposed for 2,670
s.f. with only one exit for occupancy, noting that the balance of the
floors will not at this time to occupied, and grant the variance to
OBBC Section 1014.6.1 and permit
the required stair risers to be 7-3/8”
as proposed, noting that the adjacent stairs are similar, and to
require an analysis of the stairs in
the building for a proposed future
occupancy to be submitted to the

The City Record

22
Board. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-196-98.
RE:
Appeal
of
Bruce
Felder,
Owner of the One-Story Property
located on the premises known as
4747 West 160th Street from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated October
29, 1998, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the property line limitation
requirements, noting that the property has an 18-foot driveway and
approximately
20-feet
distance
between the property line and the
building; that no openings would be
put in the building wall and that
the
adjacent
property also
has
approximately
20-feet
of
space
before the building construction,
noting that these issues are to be
represented
and
filed
with
the
Board. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Bowes.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-200-98.
RE: Appeal of Kwaku H. Duah,
Owner of the Two-Family Residential Property located on the premises known as 2242 East 93rd Street
from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMIT of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated October 16, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant a six month (6 mo.)
“Extension of Time” on the permit
in which to complete rehabilitation
of the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

the Appellant. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.

*

Docket A-203-98.
RE: Appeal of Bridge Housing
Corporation, Owner of the Proposed
Townhouses located on the premises
known
as
5215-5307
Bridge
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated November 5, 1998, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to OPC 701.3 and permit the
connection to be made as requested
in the appeal statement, noting the
common maintenance agreement of

*

*

*

Docket A-208-98.
RE: Appeal of Colonial Marketplace, LLC, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
530 Euclid Avenue from a PARTIAL
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated November 5, 1998, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, and the Ohio
Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action; the docket will be
rescheduled for November 25, 1998.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolution as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
L-9-98—Frank G. Dzik
A-64-98—John McPherson
A-105-98—1799-1873 Beall Avenue
Co., Inc.
A-133-98—Burton Enterprises, Inc.
A-141-98—Ginny Giangiacomo
A-153-98—Theodore Weaver
A-161-98—Jolly Properties Ltd.
A-162-98—Frank
L.
and
Nancy
Craig
A-175-98— Pricilla Washington
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Sullivan for Approval of the Minutes
as
presented
by
the
Secretary
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland:
October 28, 1998
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

November 18, 1998
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1998
Gym Floor Renovations, for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1727-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 19, 1998.
Auto/Truck Batteries, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1852-98.
November 11, 1998 and November 18,
1998
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1998

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard Norris, last known address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment
2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

1938

Fire Hydrants and Fire Hydrant
Parts, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976.
Powdered Activated Carbon, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.24 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976.
November 11, 1998 and November 18,
1998

November 18, 1998
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1998
Keycards and Accessories, for the
various divisions of the Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 355-98,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 6, 1998.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998, 1:00 P.M. IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL’S BAGGAGE CLAIM CONFERENCE
ROOM,
TERMINAL
BUILDING,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT, 5300 RIVERSIDE DRIVE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
Tree Trimming, for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1256-98, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, October 12, 1998.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1998, 2:00
P.M. 3RD FLOOR CONVENTION
CENTER, 500 LAKESIDE AVENUE.
Arborcultural Work in the Downtown Tree Assessment District,
for the Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1253-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, October
12, 1998.
November 11, 1998 and November 18,
1998
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1998
Lubricants, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1848-98.
Stationary Generator Repair, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1853-98.
Meyer Snow Plow and Spreader
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 185098.
Three (3) Cab and Chassis with
Utility Service Body (Light/Medium), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1074-98, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 15, 1998.
November 11, 1998 and November 18,
1998
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1998
Bonds and Fidelity Coverages, for
the Department of Finance, as
authorized
by
Section
171.11
through 171.17 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976.
Parma-Pearl-York 36" Water Supply
Main, Section IV, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordi-

The City Record
nance Nos. 2563-89, 767-92 and 96493, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 4,
1989, June 8, 1992 and June 14,
1993, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($200.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 1998, 9:30 A.M. IN THE RADIO
ROOM ON THE 2ND FLOOR IN
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING AT THE HARVARD YARDS,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44109.
ATTENDANCE AT THIS MEETING IS NOT MANDATORY.
Repair or Replace Fire Hydrants,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 754-98,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 8, 1998.
Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining of Trunk Water Mains, Area
98-T1, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1880-98.
A DEPOSIT OF TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($200.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1998, 10:00 A.M. AT HARVARD
YARDS
(TRAINING
ROOM),
4600 HARVARD AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44109.
November 18, 1998 and November 25,
1998
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1998
Gas
Detection
and
Calibration
Equipment, for the Various Divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 425-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 6, 1998.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1998, 2:00
P.M. IN THE MAIN OFFICE OF
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
Labor and Materials to Install Handicap Restrooms in the Music Hall,
for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
761-98, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 18, 1998.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1998, 10:00
A.M. AT THE MUSIC HALL,

1939

23
EAST
6TH
AND
ST.
CLAIR
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
November 18, 1998 and November 25,
1998
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1998
Four (4) Crew-Cab/Chassis with
Dump Body/Back-of Cab Compartment, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1113-97 and 1074-98,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 16, 1997 and
June 15, 1998, respectively.
One (1) Utility Tractor, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1074-98, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 15,
1998.
November 18, 1998 and November 25,
1998
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1998
Labor
and
Materials
to
Repair
Water Mains and Appurtenances,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 546-98,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 18, 1998.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
WILL BE HELD ON MONDAY,
NOVEMBER 30, 1998, 10:00 A.M. IN
THE
CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
POWER CONFERENCE ROOM B,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
North Royalton Discharge Water
Supply Mains, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 964-93, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 14,
1993.
A DEPOSIT OF TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($200.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
30, 1998, 9:30 A.M. IN THE RADIO
ROOM ON THE 2ND FLOOR IN
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING AT THE HARVARD YARDS,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44109.
ATTENDANCE AT THIS MEETING IS NOT MANDATORY.
Wire, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1998, 10:00
A.M. AT CLEVELAND PUBLIC
POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
November 18, 1998 and November 25,
1998

The City Record

24
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1969-98.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a D4 Liquor
Permit to 2614 E. 128th St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a D4 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 2400143, East Blvd. Athletic Club, 2614 E. 128th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44120; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a D4 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 2400143, East Blvd. Athletic Club, 2614 E. 128th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44120 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.

Res. No. 1970-98.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 6611
St. Clair Ave.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Director of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 04639680005,
Ferdinand Baromir, DBA B-J Tavern,
6611 St. Clair, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
to
Permit
No.
4289654,
Jimmie
Richard, 6611 St. Clair Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
04639680005,
Ferdinand
Baromir,
DBA B-J Tavern, 6611 St. Clair,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to Permit No.
4289654, Jimmie Richard, 6611 St.
Clair Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44103
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.

1940

November 18, 1998
Res. No. 1971-98.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 5510 St. Clair
Ave. & Gas Pumps.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 3694682, Willie
Haynes Sr., DBA Sohio BP Food
Mart, 5510 St. Clair Ave. & Gas
Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to
Permit No. 1115325, Burkanns Inc.,
5510 St. Clair Ave. & Gas Pumps,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 3694682, Willie
Haynes Sr., DBA Sohio BP Food
Mart, 5510 St. Clair Ave. & Gas
Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to Permit No. 1115325, Burkanns Inc., 5510
St. Clair Ave. & Gas Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.

November 18, 1998
Res. No. 1972-98.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 662
E. 140th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Director of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 4203700,
Eman Jaffal, DBA E & K Food Deal,
662 E. 140th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to Permit No.
5439362, Maisam Corp., DBA Four M
Food Market, 662 E. 140th St., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
4203700, Eman Jaffal, DBA E & K
Food Deal, 662 E. 140th St., 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44110, to
Permit No. 5439362, Maisam Corp.,
DBA Four M Food Market, 662 E.
140th St., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland,
Ohio 44110 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.

The City Record
Res. No. 1973-98.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership
and location of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit to 9300 Wade Park,
Unit A 38.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership and location of a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit from
Permit No. 8915888, 3600 Denison
Ave. Inc., 3600 Denison Ave., 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, c/o Eugene
Stevens, to Permit No. 0003588, AFD
Grocery Inc., DBA WP Food, 9300
Wade Park Unit A 38, Cleveland,
Ohio 44106; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify
to be a permit
holder
and/or has demonstrated that he
has operated his liquor business in
disregard of the laws, regulations
or local ordinances of this state or
any other state, more specifically,
no previous and/or potential liquor
permit holder should have a criminal conviction of any kind, including but not limited to, food stamp
fraud or sale to underage minors;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership and location of a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit from
Permit No. 8915888, 3600 Denison
Ave. Inc., 3600 Denison Ave., 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, c/o Eugene
Stevens, to Permit No. 0003588, AFD
Grocery Inc., DBA WP Food, 9300
Wade Park Unit A 38, Cleveland,
Ohio 44106 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

1941

25
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.
Res. No. 1974-98.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to 5004 Storer Ave.,
and repealing Res. No. 1826-98, objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
5004 Storer Ave., by Res. No. 1826-98,
adopted October 12, 1998; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 5004
Storer Ave., be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 1826-98,
containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer of ownership
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.
Res. No. 1975-98.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 1144 E.
105th St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 03455980001,
Azzam Brothers Inc., 5603 Fleet
Ave., 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
to Permit No. 75642110005, Royal
Foods Inc., DBA Royal Eagle, 1144
E. 105th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44108;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

26
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of location of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 03455980001,
Azzam Brothers Inc., 5603 Fleet
Ave., 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
to Permit No. 75642110005, Royal
Foods Inc., DBA Royal Eagle, 1144
E. 105th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44108
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.
Res. No. 1977-98.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5A and D6 Liquor Permit to 4181
W. 150th St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5A and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
0754664, Blend All Hotel Development Inc., 4181 W. 150th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44135, to Permit No.
4041470, Hudson Hotels Corp., DBA
Holiday Inn Airport, 4181 W. 150th
St., Cleveland, Ohio 44135; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not

The City Record
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5A and D6
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
0754664, Blend All Hotel Development Inc., 4181 W. 150th St., Cleveland, Ohio 44135, to Permit No.
4041470, Hudson Hotels Corp., DBA
Holiday Inn Airport, 4181 W. 150th
St.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44135
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.
Res. No. 1978-98.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 4563
Warner Rd.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
0339294, A & Z Food Mart Inc., DBA
Dairy Mart #5-4401, 4563 Warner
Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44111, to Permit
No. 2848404, 4563 Warner Inc., DBA
Warner Mart, 4563 Warner Rd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105; and

1942

November 18, 1998
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
0339294, A & Z Food Mart Inc., DBA
Dairy Mart #5-4401, 4563 Warner
Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44111, to Permit
No. 2848404, 4563 Warner Inc., DBA
Warner Mart, 4563 Warner Rd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.
Res. No. 1979-98.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
3916 E. 123rd St., 1st Fl.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the trans-

November 18, 1998
fer of ownership of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7097656, Ranie Inc., DBA Ranie Food
Market, 3916 E. 123rd St., 1st Fl., to
Permit No. 0304786, Aswinia Inc.,
3916 E. 123rd St., 1st Fl., Cleveland,
Ohio 44105; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to the building, safety or
health requirements of the governing body of this County or City;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7097656, Ranie Inc., DBA Ranie
Food Market, 3916 E. 123rd St., 1st
Fl., to Permit No. 0304786, Aswinia
Inc., 3916 E. 123rd St., 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1769-98.
By Councilmen Britt, Jackson and
Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Karamu House for the repair
of its building located at 2355 East
89th Street. CDBG Year XIV.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with
Karamu House for the repair of its
building located at 2355 East 89th
Street.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed One Hundred Forty-Nine
Thousand Dollars ($149,000) and
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF
024, Request No. 23118.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.
Ord. No. 1965-98.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1641, 1645 East 84th
Street and 8403 Linwood Avenue to
Freddie Love and Olivia Love.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-23-110,
106-23-111 and 106-23-151, as more
fully described in Section 2 below,
to Freddie and Olivia Love.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-23-110
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio,
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391 and
bounded and described as follows:

1943

27
Beginning at a point 484 feet
Westerly from the Westerly line of
East 86th Street (formerly Marcy
Avenue)
and
1428
17/100
feet
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., said point
being in the Easterly line of a proposed 44 feet street called East 84th
Street (formerly Van Ness Avenue),
thence Northerly parallel with East
86th Street and along the Easterly
line of said East 84th Street, 40 feet;
thence Easterly parallel with Wade
Park Avenue, N.E., 102 feet; thence
Southerly, parallel with East 86th
Street, 40 feet; thence Westerly, parallel with East 84th Street, 102 feet
to the place of beginning and being
further known as Sublot No. 35 in
L.M. Southern’s proposed Wade Park
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 383 and 391,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 106-23-111
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Easterly line of East 84th Street
(formerly Van Ness Avenue) with
the Northerly line of Linwood Avenue, N.E., (formerly Stanley Avenue); thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of East 84th Street, 40
feet; thence Easterly and parallel
with the Northerly line of Linwood
Avenue, N.E., 60 feet to the Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Jack Pettit and Lois Pettit by deed
dated April 9, 1943, and recorded in
Volume 5497, Page 567 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Jack and Lois Pettit, 40
feet to the Northerly line of Linwood
Avenue, N.E.; thence Westerly along
the
Northerly
line
of
Linwood
Avenue, N.E., 60 feet to the place of
beginning, and being further known
as part of Parcel No. 34 but in L.N.
Southern’s Subdivision proposed, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 106-23-151
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., at a point distant 60 feet Easterly, from the intersection of the
Easterly line of East 84th Street,
with the Northerly line of Linwood
Avenue, N.E.; thence Northerly along
a line parallel with with said Easterly line of East 84th Street, 40 feet;
thence Easterly, parallel with the
said
Northerly
line
of
Linwood
Avenue, N.E., 42 feet; thence Southerly, parallel with said Easterly line of
East 84th Street, 40 feet to said
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E.; thence Westerly, along said
Northerly line of Linwood Avenue,
N.E., 42 feet to the place of beginning, and being further known as
part of Parcel 34, in L.M. Southern
Proposed Subdivision, of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 383
and 391, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to right-of-way in deed
from Bina Coit to Jack Pettit and
Lois Pettit, filed for record April 14,
1943 at 11:16 a.m. and recorded in
Volume 5497, Page 567 of Cuyahoga
County Records
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.

28
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 1998.
Effective November 17, 1998.
Ord. No. 1966-98.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1629 and 1633 East
84th Street to Michael R. Acree and
Annie L. Acree.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
hereby authorized to sell Permanent
Parcel No(s). 106-23-107 and 106-23108, as more fully described in Section 2 below, to Michael R. Acree
and Annie L. Acree.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-23-107
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of

The City Record
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391 bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 84th Street (formerly Van Ness
Avenue), (said Easterly line being
parallel with and distant Westerly
484 feet from the Westerly line of
East 86th Street, (formerly Marcy
Avenue), distant Southerly along
said Easterly line 1268.17 feet from
the Southerly line of Wade Park
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
continuing
Southerly along said Easterly line,
40 feet; thence Easterly parallel
with the Southerly line of Wade
Park Avenue, N.E. 102 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with said Easterly line 40 feet; thence Westerly 102
feet to the place of beginning and
being further known as Parcel No.
80 in L.M. Southern’s proposed Wade
Park Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 383 and
391.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-23-108
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 84th Street (formerly Van Ness
Avenue), at a point 1,308.17 feet
Southerly,
measured
along
said
Easterly line of East 84th Street,
from the Southerly line of Wade
Park Avenue, N.E.; thence Southerly
along said Easterly line of East 84th
Street, 40 feet; thence Easterly parallel with the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E., 102 feet;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Easterly line of East 84th Street, 40
feet; thence Westerly parallel with
the Southerly line of Wade Park
Avenue, N.E., 102 feet to the place
of beginning, and being further
known as Parcel No. 49 in L.M.
Southern’s
proposed
Wade
Park
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 383 and 391,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

1944

November 18, 1998
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 1998.
Effective November 17, 1998.
Ord. No. 1967-98.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located at 806 and 802
Eddy Road to Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation or
designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 110-10-056
and
110-10-055,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 110-10-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 6 and 7 in the Boulevard Drive Subdivision No. 1 of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 372, as shown by the recorded
plat of said Subdivision in Volume
55 of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southwesterly
line of Eddy Road, N.E., at a point
distant 7 feet Northwesterly from
the Southeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 7; thence Northwesterly
along said Southwesterly line of
Eddy Road, N.E., 47 feet; thence
Southwesterly parallel to the Southeasterly line of said Sublot No. 6,
about 115.88 feet to the Southwesterly line of said Sublot No. 6; thence
Southeasterly along the Southwesterly line of said Sublots Nos. 6 and
7, about 47.05 feet to a point where
a line drawn parallel to the Southeasterly line of said Sublot No. 7
from the place of beginning would
intersect said Southwesterly line of
Sublot No. 7; thence Northeasterly
about 117.94 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat.
Subject to Easements recorded in
Volume 3335, Page 382 and in Volume 6452, Page 647 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

The City Record

November 18, 1998
P.P. No. 110-10-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 8 and part of Sublot No.
7 in the Boulevard Drive Subdivision
No. 1 of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 372, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 55 of
Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southwesterly
line of Eddy Road, N.E., at the
Southeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 8; thence Northwesterly along
said Southwesterly line of Eddy
Road, N.E., 47 feet; thence Southwesterly parallel with the Southeasterly line of said Sublot No. 7,
about 117.94 feet to the Southwesterly line thereof; thence Southeasterly along the Southwesterly line of
said Sublots Nos. 7 and 8, about 47.05
feet to the Southwesterly corner of
Sublot No. 8; thence Northeasterly
along the Southeasterly line of
Sublot No. 8, 120 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 1998.
Effective November 10, 1998.
Ord. No. 1968-98.
By Councilmen Willis and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of youth ski lessons, for the
Division of Recreation, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year for the necessary
items of ski lessons for City of
Cleveland youths in the estimated
sum of $20,000, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Recreation, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21109)

29
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed November 9, 1998.
Effective November 11, 1998.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, November 9, 1998
Public Health Committee: 9:30 A.M.
— Present: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Cintron, Jackson, Melena,
Robinson.
Excused;
Britt,
Vice
Chairman.
Public Utilities Committee: (joint
with Finance Committee): 12:30 P.M.
—
Present:
Patmon,
Chairman;
Coats,
Vice
Chairman;
Cintron,
Jones,
Lewis,
Moran,
Polensek.
Excused: Britt, Dolan.
Finance Committee: (joint with
Public Utilities Committee): 12:30
P.M. — Present: Johnson, Chairman; Westbrook, Vice Chairman;
Coats,
Lewis,
Melena,
Patmon,
Polensek, Robinson, Rybka, Sweeney, Zone.
Finance Committee: 2:00 P.M. —
Present: Johnson, Chairman; Westbrook, Vice Chairman; Coats, Lewis,
Melena, Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka, Sweeney, Zone.
Tuesday, November 10, 1998
Community & Economic Development Committee: 9:00 A.M. — Present: Jackson, Chairman; Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Lewis,
Zone. Excused: Britt, Vice Chairman.
Wednesday, November 11, 1998
Aviation & Transportation Committee: 10:00 A.M. — Present: Westbrook,
Chairman;
Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman; Cimperman, Dolan, Patmon, Willis. Excused: White.

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Agreements
To amend Section 135.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 1116-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating to intermunicipal fire
protection agreements (O 2005-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921

Ameritech
East 40th Street at Carnegie Avenue — encroachment — Ameritech — Service Department
(O 1644-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931

1945

The City Record

30

November 18, 1998

Banners
Authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners at various locations on Waterloo
from November 16, 1998 to January 8, 1999, inclusive (O 2013-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
Authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners/holiday lights for the period from
November 30, 1998 to January 5, 1999, inclusive (O 2014-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928

Codified Ordinances
To amend Section 135.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 1116-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating to intermunicipal fire
protection agreements (O 2005-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921
To amend Sections 3167.01, 3167.02, 3167,03, 3167.04 and 3167.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2784-87, passed
December 21, 1987, relating to flood plain management (O 2007-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1922

Colonial Market Place
To amend the title and Sections 1 and 6 of Ordinance No. 1010-98, passed August 19, 1998,
relating to a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with Colonial Market Place, LLC to
provide for service payments (O 2010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1927

Communications
Letter from various entities apprising the Council that each said entity will be a partner
in a residential development project located in various residential development
project located in various wards - Ohio Housing Finance Age (F 417-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
MBE/FBE “Set Aside” requisition list sent to the Division of Purchasing -Department of
Public Safety (F 1993-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Sales Request No. 90168 - Division of Purchases and Supplies (F 1994-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919

Community Development
Contract with Karamu House - repair of building - 2355 East 89th Street - CDBG Year XIV
- Department of Community Development (O 1769-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943
Emergency Shelter Grant Program — $1,208,000.00 — expend funds and enter into contract
with various non-profit agencies for implementation (O 1082-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931-1932
Marshall Avenue, PPN 127-11-084 — authorize Director of Community Development to transfer
property to the control, possession and use of Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (O 1264-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
Permanent Parcel Nos. 004-02-036 and 004-02-037 (Ward 13) — authorize Director of
Community Development to transfer to the control, possession and use of Parks,
Recreation and Properties Department (O 1265-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
To amend Sections 3167.01, 3167.02, 3167,03, 3167.04 and 3167.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2784-87, passed
December 21, 1987, relating to flood plain management (O 2007-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1922

Condolences
Gulley, Anita Juan (R 2021-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919

Congratulations
Antioch Credit Union (R 2033-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Brown, Gregory L. (R 2027-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Gerena, Sandi (R 2024-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Hayes, Shade (R 2022-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Hogan, James (R 2032-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Leu, Dr. James (R 2026-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
McGuinea, Tyrone (R 2025-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Moultry, Reverend Bishop Prince J. (R 2034-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Parries, Jacqueline Beatrice (R 2030-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Pye, Melvin G. Jr. (R 2028-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Ratner, Albert B. (R 2029-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Rogers, Tamura T. (R 2031-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
The Amici String Quartet (R 2023-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919

1946

November 18, 1998

The City Record

31

Economic Development Department
Appropriating a portion of the funds obtained from Norfolk Southern and CSX and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ professional consultants
to design and plan for noise mitigation improvements (O 2008-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1926
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with LH Development LLC, to provide for the purpose of repayment of NDIF
funds (O 2009-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1927
Boise Cascade Office Products - Enterprise Zone Agreement - ten year abatement - Economic
Development. (O 1610-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
Enterprise Zone Agreement - Gergel-Kellem Company, Inc. and G-K LTD d.b.a. Watt Printers
- ten year abatement - Economic Development Department (O 1817-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931-1933
Sell City-owned property on Miles Avenue to Rite Aid of Ohio, Inc. - Purchases and
Supplies (O 1729-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
To amend Section 2 and 4 of Ordinance No. 1276-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating to the
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into various agreements
to provide economic development financial assistance (O 2012-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1267-98, passed August 19, 1998,
relating to the title acquisition to certain property constituting the Lee Harvard
Shopping Center (O 2011-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
To amend the title and Sections 1 and 6 of Ordinance No. 1010-98, passed August 19, 1998,
relating to a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with Colonial Market Place, LLC to
provide for service payments (O 2010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1927

Emergency Shelter Program
Emergency Shelter Grant Program — $1,208,000.00 — expend funds and enter into contract
with various non-profit agencies for implementation (O 1082-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931-1932

Encroachments
East 40th Street at Carnegie Avenue — encroachment — Ameritech — Service Department
(O 1644-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Boise Cascade Office Products - Enterprise Zone Agreement - ten year abatement - Economic
Development. (O 1610-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931

Euclid Arcade
To amend the title and Sections 1 and 6 of Ordinance No. 1010-98, passed August 19, 1998,
relating to a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with Colonial Market Place, LLC to
provide for service payments (O 2010-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1927

Finance Department
Accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Budget Commission and authorizing
the necessary tax levies certifying them to the County Auditor - Department of
Finance (R 1859-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Appropriating funds obtained from the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation for various
public improvements and to purchase vehicles - Department of Finance (O 1999-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1920
Requesting the County Auditor to make tax advances during the year 1999 (R 1860-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Requirement contract - messenger services - various divisions of City government - period
not to exceed two years (O 1813-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Requirement contract - paper stock and envelopes, for the various division of City
government (O 1812-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932

Grants
Apply for and accept grants from the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency — $366,269
and Ohio Environmental Protection Agency —$917,452 and purchase equipment and
supplies to implement Program — Division of Public Health (O 1724-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
Emergency Shelter Grant Program — $1,208,000.00 — expend funds and enter into contract
with various non-profit agencies for implementation (O 1082-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931-1932

1947

The City Record

32

November 18, 1998

Health Division
Apply and accept a grant from the Ohio Department of Health - the Infant Mortality
Reduction (Initiative) Grant - contract with Lutheran Metropolitan Ministry Department of Public Health (O 1766-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio Department of Pubic Health for the STD
- Diagnostic and Treatment Services - Division of Public Health (O 1723-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931-1932
Apply for and accept grants from the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency — $366,269
and Ohio Environmental Protection Agency —$917,452 and purchase equipment and
supplies to implement Program — Division of Public Health (O 1724-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to employ one or more professional consultants
to provide professional services necessary to implement the HOPWA program
(O 2004-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing, rehabilitating,
renovating, replacing, upgrading, securing or otherwise improving certain City-owned
recreation facilities and City owned health centers (O 2006-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921
Land Reutilization Program
East 84th Street, 1629 and 1633 (Ward 7) — sell to Michael R. Acree and Annie L. Acree
(O 1966-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
East 84th, 1641 and 1645; Linwood Avenue, 8403 (Ward 7) — sell to Freddi Love and Olivia
Love (O 1965-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1943
Eddy Road, 806 and 802 (Ward 9) — sell to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee (O 1967-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1944
Lee Harvard Shopping Center
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with LH Development LLC, to provide for the purpose of repayment of NDIF
funds (O 2009-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1927
To amend Section 2 and 4 of Ordinance No. 1276-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating to the
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into various agreements
to provide economic development financial assistance (O 2012-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1267-98, passed August 19, 1998,
relating to the title acquisition to certain property constituting the Lee Harvard
Shopping Center (O 2011-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
Liquor Permits
Detroit Avenue, 4204 (Ward 14) - Transfer of Ownership and Location Application - 7694512
(F 1995-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th Street, 1144 (Ward 8) — objecting to transfer of location of C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit (R 1975-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 3916 first floor (Ward 2) — objection to transfer of ownership of C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit (R 1979-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street (Ward 6) — objecting to issuance of D4 Liquor Permit (R 1969-98) . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 662 first floor and basement (Ward 10) — objection to transfer
of ownership of C2 and C2X Liquor Permit (R 1972-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Shore Blvd., 16826 - objecting to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit
(R 2019-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Heights Boulevard, 13501, first floor, (Ward 19) - Stop N Save, Inc. - Stock
Transfer Application - 8616529 (F 1997-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Avenue, 3061 (Ward 13) - Little Kings Lounge, Incorporate dba Little Kings Lounge
- Transfer of Location Application - 52379270001 (F 1996-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Avenue, 3061 - objecting to the transfer of location of a D5 and D6 liquor permit
(R 2016-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Avenue, 6017 - withdrawing objection to the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
and repealing Res. No. 1056-98, objecting to said issuance (R 2017-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 5510 and gas pumps (Ward 13) — objecting to transfer of ownership of
C1 Liquor Permit (R 1971-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 6611 (Ward 13) — objecting to transfer of ownership of D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit (R 1970-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 5004 (Ward 17) — withdrawing objection to transfer of ownership of D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit — repeal Resolution No. 1826-98 (R 1974-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park, 9300 Unit A 38 (Ward 7) — objecting to transfer of ownership and location of
C2, C2X and D6 permit (R 1973-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road, 4563 (Ward 2) — objecting to transfer of ownership of C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit (R 1978-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 150th Street, 4181 (Ward 20) — objecting to transfer of ownership of D5A and
D6 Liquor Permit (R 1977-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1948

. . . . . . . . . . 1919
. . . . . . . . . . 1941
. . . . . . . . . . 1942
. . . . . . . . . . 1940
. . . . . . . . . . 1941
. . . . . . . . . . 1930
. . . . . . . . . . 1919
. . . . . . . . . . 1919
. . . . . . . . . . 1930
. . . . . . . . . . 1930
. . . . . . . . . . 1940
. . . . . . . . . . 1940
. . . . . . . . . . 1941
. . . . . . . . . . 1941
. . . . . . . . . . 1942
. . . . . . . . . . 1942

November 18, 1998

The City Record

33

Norfolk Southern Railroad
Appropriating a portion of the funds obtained from Norfolk Southern and CSX and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ professional consultants
to design and plan for noise mitigation improvements (O 2008-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1926
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Cleveland Industrial park — sell property — Euro-USA (O 1651-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract No. PS 48528 for improvement at Settlers Landing Park 1997 Construction Phase
II - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 1998-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing, rehabilitating,
renovating, replacing, upgrading, securing or otherwise improving certain City-owned
recreation facilities and City owned health centers (O 2006-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marshall Avenue, PPN 127-11-084 — authorize Director of Community Development to transfer
property to the control, possession and use of Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (O 1264-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Permanent Parcel Nos. 004-02-036 and 004-02-037 (Ward 13) — authorize Director of
Community Development to transfer to the control, possession and use of Parks,
Recreation and Properties Department (O 1265-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Ski Lessons — contract — Recreation Division (O 1968-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1931
. . . . . . . . . 1919

. . . . . . . . . 1921

. . . . . . . . . 1931

. . . . . . . . . 1931
. . . . . . . . . 1945

Permits
Authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners at various locations on Waterloo
from November 16, 1998 to January 8, 1999, inclusive (O 2013-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners/holiday lights for the period from
November 30, 1998 to January 5, 1999, inclusive (O 2014-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consenting to and approving the issuance of a permit for the Turkey Trot Race on November
26, 1998, sponsored by Hermes Race Systems (O 2020-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consenting to and approving the issuance of a permit for the Kilometers for Kids on May
2, 1999, sponsored by West Side Ecumencial Ministries (O 2018-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . 1928

. . . . . . . . 1928
. . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . 1929

Port Control Department
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to apply for and accept State of Ohio and Federal
grant funds - Department of Port Control (O 2001-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1920
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary
to maintain and repair air conditioning systems for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years (O 2002-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1920
Purchases and Supplies Department
Sales Request No. 90168 - Division of Purchases and Supplies (F 1994-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Sell City-owned property on Miles Avenue to Rite Aid of Ohio, Inc. - Purchases and
Supplies (O 1729-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Purchases/Contracts
Youth Ski Lessons — contract — Recreation Division (O 1968-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945
Railroads
Appropriating a portion of the funds obtained from Norfolk Southern and CSX and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ professional consultants
to design and plan for noise mitigation improvements (O 2008-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1926
Real Estate
Marshall Avenue, PPN 127-11-084 — authorize Director of Community Development to transfer
property to the control, possession and use of Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (O 1264-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
Permanent Parcel Nos. 004-02-036 and 004-02-037 (Ward 13) — authorize Director of
Community Development to transfer to the control, possession and use of Parks,
Recreation and Properties Department (O 1265-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
Recreation Division
Youth Ski Lessons — contract — Recreation Division (O 1968-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1945

1949

The City Record

34

November 18, 1998

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Urging the President of the United States to request an investigation of the Ugandan
Tuberculosis Study (R 2015-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
Safety Department
Apply for and accept a grant from the Department of Justice - Office for State and Local
Domestic Preparedness for the State and Local Domestic Preparedness Equipment Support
Program - Department of Public Safety (O 1726-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
MBE/FBE “Set Aside” requisition list sent to the Division of Purchasing -Department of
Public Safety (F 1993-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
To amend Section 135.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 1116-98, passed July 29, 1998, relating to intermunicipal fire
protection agreements (O 2005-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921
Service Department
Authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners at various locations on Waterloo
from November 16, 1998 to January 8, 1999, inclusive (O 2013-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to stretch banners/holiday lights for the period from
November 30, 1998 to January 5, 1999, inclusive (O 2014-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of various on-road vehicles and off-road
equipment, for the various divisions of City government - Department of Public
Service (O 2003-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 40th Street at Carnegie Avenue — encroachment — Ameritech — Service Department
(O 1644-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Lorain Road - encroach into the aerial rights-of-way - permit - Fairview Health System
- Service Department (O 1814-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Ordinance No. 1737-98 - change of a street name (O 1895-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1928

. . . . . . . . . . . 1928

. . . . . . . . . . . 1920
. . . . . . . . . . . 1931
. . . . . . . . . . . 1931
. . . . . . . . . . . 1931

Statement of Work Acceptance
Contract No. PS 48528 for improvement at Settlers Landing Park 1997 Construction Phase
II - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 1998-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1919
Streets - Vacation
A portion of West 200th Street, Elsmere Avenue, S.W., West 198th Street, West 191st
Street, Wagner Place S.W., Maplewood Avenue, S.W., and Maplewood Avenue, S.W.
— street vacations. (O 1598-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931-1932
Portions of Harvard Pl., S.E. and unnamed Alley West of Harvard Pl., S.E. and Northerly
of Harvard Avenue - intention to vacate. (R 1614-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Sommer Court, N.W. - intention to vacate - Public Service. (R 1613-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932
Stone Court N.W.(portion) - street vacation. (O 1600-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1931
West 62nd Place - portion - intention to vacate. (R 1615-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1932

Utilities Department
Authorizing the purchase by contract of one diesel forklift truck, for the Division of
Water - Department of Public Utilities (O 2000-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1920

1950

