The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

February the Twenty-Eighth, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Six

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Artha Woods
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Charles L. Patton, Jr.
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Gary M. Paulenske
Helen K. Smith
James Rokakis
Patrick J. O'Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Dale Miller
David M. McGuirk

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
27
27
28
28
29
30
30
30
31
32
32

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Charles L. Patton, Jr......................................2986 Ripley Road
44120
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
Gary M. Paulenske...................................1020 East 61st Street
44103
Helen K. Smith...........................................3016 Carroll Avenue
44113
James Rokakis...............................................4685 Dornur Road
44109
Patrick J. O’Malley.................................6111 Brookside Drive
44144
Timothy J. Melena ........................6109 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
44111
Dale Miller ................................................13726 Elsetta Avenue
44135
David McGuirk .............................................17101 Amber Drive
44111
Clerk of Council–Artha Woods, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk–Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR–Michael R. White
Lavonne Sheffield-Turner, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Richard Werner, Executive Assistant for Governmental Affairs.
Linda Willis, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Sharon Sobol Jordan, Director of Law, Room 106;
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian; Criminal Branch–Justice Center, 8th
Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario
Carolyn Watts-Allen, Chief Asst. Prosecutor
Steven J. Terry, Chief Counsel
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Kathryn Burrer Hyer, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – A. Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 122
Assessments and Licenses – John Hunt, Commissioner, Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Convention
Center, Clubroom B
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Keith D. Schuster, Acting Controller,
Room 18
Information Systems Services – Martin Carmody, Acting Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – M. Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – Nagah M. Ramadan, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – William F. Cunningham, Jr., Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - Stephen Sheehan, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport - Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Larry Hines, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineeri ng and Construc tion – J. Chri stophe r Nielson, Acting
Commissioner, Rm. 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Donald L. Haskins, Commissioner, Harvard
Yards
Architecture – Kenneth Nobilio, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH –Robert O. Staib, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue.
DIVISIONS – Health – Juan Molina Crespo, Acting Commissioner, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Carolyn Wallace, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 North–
field Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – William M. Denihan, Director. 1825 Lakeside Avenue.
DIVISIONS \ Police\ John J. Collins, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
||||Ontario Street
Fire – William E. Lee, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – David Ritz, Commissioner, 2001 Payne Ave.
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 2001 Payne
Ave.
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Oliver B. Spellman,
|||Jr., Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVIS IONS – Conven tio n Cente r & S tadi um – James Gle nding,
|||Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner,
||||E. 49th & Harvard
Parking F acilities – Michael Cox, A ctin g Commissioner, Public
||||Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Park Maintenance and Properties –Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – M. Fallon, Commissioner, Burke
Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT –Terri Hamilton, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Festus Cassels, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Terri Hamilton, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Joseph Nolan,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Rm. 122, Susan Axelrod, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Sam Thomas, III, Exec.

Director; Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele
Springman, Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward
Rybka, City Council Representatives; Louise Boddie,Jr., Muqit Abdul
Sabur, Clifford Savren, Henry Simon, George S. Smilnak, Harry Taketa,
Timothy Cosgrove.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; James J. Marniella, Vice President; Donna K. Nelson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Patricia
Stokes, Asst. Sec’y.; Kathryn Burrer Hyer, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Valerie Schwonek, Chairman;

Dona Brady, Vice–Chairman; Anna Chatman, Paula Phillips, Tony
Petkovsek, Anthony Costanzo, Sec’y.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, S. K. Birch, Alternate Members – D.
Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan. Exec. Sec’y.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director, Sharon Sobol

Jordan; Pres. Finance Director, Kathryn Burrer Hyer, Director Sec’y.
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Henry Guzmán, Service Director;

Law Director, Sharon Sobol Jordan, Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director, Sharon

Sobol Jordan, Utilities Director, Michael Konicek; President of Council, Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Rev. Albert T. Rowan, Chairman; Todd W. Schmidt, Vice Chairman Thomas
D. Corrigan, Anthony J. Coyne, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Councilman Edward W. Rybka.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Sharon Sobol Jordan, Kathryn Burrer Hyer,
Councilmen James Rokakis, Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Ralph R. Carpinelli,
Chairman; Marion J. Long, Anton J. Eichmuller, Samuel Montfort
J. Gilbert Steele, Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chrm.;
Ben S. Eulinberg, Martin J. Kilbane, Jozef Valencik, Martin Gallagher,
Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
CLEV ELA ND L ANDMARKS C OMMISS ION – Ro om 51 9 ,___ ___ __,
Director; R. Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Robert
Keiser, Secretary; Judge Lillian Burke, James Gibans, Hunter Morrison,
Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Randall Shorr, Shirley Thompson,
Councilmen Craig E. Willis and Helen K. Smith.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Salvatore R. Calandra
13A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
12B
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
14C
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert S. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner–Clerk of Courts, John J. O’Toole–Court Administrator, Robert
C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer, Michelle
L. Paris–Chief Referee

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1996

Vol. 83

No. 4290

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.00 per month
Address all communications to

ARTHA WOODS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1994-1997
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman;
Miller, Patton, Paulenske, Robinson,
White.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee:
Robinson,
Chairman;
Miller,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Jackson, Melena, O’Malley, Zone.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Johnson, McGuirk,
Melena, Smith, Westbrook, White.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Patmon,
Chairman;
Smith,
Vice
Chairman;Jackson, Lewis, Melena,
Polensek, Robinson.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.— Finance Committee:
Rokakis,
Chairman;
Westbrook,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Lewis, McGuirk, Patmon, Polensek,
Robinson, Rybka, Smith.
TUESDAY
10:00 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Paulenske, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Coats, Lewis, Melena, Patton, Smith, Willis.
1:30 P.M.— Legislation Committee:
McGuirk, Chairman; Willis, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Johnson, Patton,
Rokakis, Rybka.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Miller, Chairman;
Paulenske, Vice Chairman; McGuirk,
Patmon, Rokakis, White, Willis.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Willis,
Vice
Chairman;
Jackson,
Miller,
O’Malley, Patmon, Patton, Paulenske, Zone.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.— Public Utilities Committee: Patton, Chairman; Polensek,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Lewis, McGuirk, O’Malley, Patmon, Willis,
Zone.
1:30 P.M.— City Planning Committee: Rybka, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman;
O’Malley,
Paulenske,
Rokakis, White, Zone.
The following Committee is subject
to Call of the Chairman:
Rules
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Coats, Miller, Robinson,
Smith.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio February 26, 1996.
The regular meeting of the Council was called to order, the President, Jay Westbrook in the chair.
Councilmen present: Britt, Coats,
Jackson, Johnson, Lewis, McGuirk,
Melena, Miller, O’Malley, Patmon,
Patton, Paulenske, Polensek, Robinson, Rokakis, Rybka, Smith, Westbrook, White, Willis, Zone.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Sobol Jordan, Konicek, Cunningham, Staib, Denihan,
Spellman, Hamilton, Nolan, Warren,
Thomas, Morrison and Acting Director Carmody.
Absent: Directors Hyer and Axelrod.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Mr. Coats, the
reading of the minutes of the last
meeting be dispensed with and the
journal approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 282-96.
From the Department of Finance
re:Annual Report of licenses and
permits issued during the fiscal
year of 1995. Received.
File No. 283-96.
From the Department of Public
Safety re: Deposits and Expenditures for Mandatory Drug Fine
Fund and Law Enforcement Trust
Fund. Received.
File No. 284-96.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Emergency Requisition (RE-81266) for the emergency
purchase of Air Handler Unit #AC3 for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. Received.
File No. 285-96.
From the Village

271

of

Highland

Hills re: Resolution 1996-4, opposing
the Cleveland Water Department’s
proposed rate increase. Received.
File No. 286-96.
From the Fair Campaign Finance
Commission re: Announcement of
candidates for City Council stating
their intent to comply with voluntary campaign expenditure limits
via signed and notarized affidavit.
Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT
OF LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 287-96.
Re: Transfer of Location Application - 7406412 - Riverbend Restaurant, Inc., dba Panini’s West Bank,
1148 Main Avenue, Unit 100. (Ward
14). Received.
File No. 288-96.
Re: New Application - 9331538 Wade Park Supermarket, Inc., 9300
Wade
Park
Avenue.
(Ward
7).
Received.
File No. 289-96.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 1882981 - D.N.A. Salesteen,
Inc., 1076 East 105th Street, first
floor. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 290-96.
Re: New Application - 6552377 12420 Superior, Inc., dba Superior
Store, 12420 Superior Avenue. (Ward
9). Received.
File No. 291-96.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 2471945 - Elena, Inc., 6909
Clark Avenue. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 292-96.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 1913808 - Dana Food Mart,
Inc., dba Dairy Mart #5-4817, 3892
West
130th
Street.
(Ward
20).
Received.
File No. 293-96.
Re: New Application - 2215195 DJONT Operations, LLC, Embassy
Suites Hotel, 1701 East 12th Street.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 294-96.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 6553032 - 1064 Old River
Road, Inc., dba Cleveland Beach
Club, 1064 Rear and 1078 Old River
Road & Patio. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 295-96.
Re: Transfer of Location Application - 740156031561 - Rite Aid of Ohio,
Inc., dba Rite Aid Discount Pharmacy, 3156, 15105 St. Clair Avenue.
(Ward 10). Received.
File No. 296-96.
Re: Transfer of Location Application - 22449730005 - Dom’s Deli Co.,
Inc., dba Dom’s, 1054 East 71st

The City Record

4
Street,
first
Received.

floor.

(Ward

13).

File No. 297-96.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 5208420 - Linda Coleman,
Inc., dba Dairy Mart 5-4827, 4920
Memphis
Avenue.
(Ward
15).
Received.
File No. 298-96.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 2815939 - Forest & Associates, Inc., dba Clifton Blvd., Union
76, 11521 Clifton Blvd. & Gas Pumps.
(Ward 18). Received.
STATEMENT OF
WORK ACCEPTED
File No. 299-96.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract No. 48517 for the Rockefeller,
Gordon, and Holden Parks Trust
Pavement Improvements, Phase III.
Received.
COMMUNICATIONS

Ronald Tober, Regional
Transit Authority
Jesse Anderson
Received.
Referred to Committee on Mayor’s
Appointments.
File No. 302-96-A.
February 7, 1996
The Honorable Jay Westbrook
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Council President Westbrook:
I
am
pleased
to
recommend
George F. Dixon for re-appointment
to the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit
Authority
Board.
This
appointment is for a three year term
and will expire on March 5, 1999.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,

File No. 300-96-A.

Michael R. White
Mayor

February 8, 1996
The Honorable Jay Westbrook
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Council President Westbrook:
I am pleased to recommend Reverend Alvin T. Jones for appointment to the Police Review Board.
This appointment will expire on
August 8, 1998.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Michael R. White
Mayor
cc:

LaVonne Sheffield-Turner,
Chief of Staff
Rick Werner, Executive
Assistant/External Affairs
Wayne Anderson
Reverend Alvin T. Jones

Received.
Referred to Committee on Mayor’s
Appointments.
File No. 301-96-A.
February 7, 1996
The Honorable Jay Westbrook
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

cc:

LaVonne Sheffield-Turner,
Chief of Staff
Rick Werner, Executive
Assistant/External Affairs
Ronald Tober, Regional
Transit Authority
George F. Dixon

Received.
Referred to Committee on Mayor’s
Appointments.
COMMITTEE ON
MAYOR’S APPOINTMENTS
The Chair appointed Councilman
Dale Miller as Chairman and Councilmen
Michael
Polensek,
Craig
Willis, Fannie Lewis and William
Patmon to consider the Mayor’s
Appointments to the Police Review
Board and the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority Board.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 332-96. Rev. J. Solomon
Sutton, II.
Res. No. 336-96. Elder Nehemiah
Satchell, Jr.
Res. No. 337-96. Rutha Butts.
CONGRATULATORY RESOLUTIONS

Dear Council President Westbrook:
I am pleased to recommend Jesse
Anderson for re-appointment to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority Board. This appointment
is for a three year term and will
expire on March 5, 1999.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Michael R. White
Mayor
cc:

LaVonne Sheffield-Turner,
Chief of Staff
Rick Werner, Executive
Assistant/External Affairs

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 338-96. Martin Savidge.
Res. No. 339-96. Mir Laik Ali.
Res. No. 340-96. David C. Murphy.
RESOLUTIONS OF RECOGNITION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 341-96. Independence of
Lithuania.
Res. No. 342-96. National Black
Police Association Day.

272

February 28, 1996
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 303-96.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor and various Directors to enter into agreements with
the National Football League, Cuyahoga County, Cleveland Development Partnership, Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority and
other entities for the financing, construction,
operation
and
maintenance of a new stadium facility and
the commitment of an NFL franchise to be located in Cleveland and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
(“City”) has been engaged in litigation
with
Cleveland
Stadium
Corp., the Cleveland Browns, Inc.
and other persons and entities concerning the terms and conditions of
their leases of Cleveland Municipal
Stadium; and
Whereas, the City is prepared to
settle the litigation in consideration
of the payment by Cleveland Stadium Corp. of the City’s damages,
administrative costs and expenses,
and legal fees and in consideration
of certain binding commitments of
the
National
Football
League
(“NFL”) to the City, the most significant of which are: the promise
of the NFL, enforceable by specific
performance, to place an NFL football franchise and owner in Cleveland no later than the first season
of NFL play occurring after construction of a new stadium in Cleveland has been completed; the contribution by the NFL to the costs of
construction of the new stadium in
amounts between Twenty-Eight Million Dollars ($28,000,000) and FortyEight Million Dollars ($48,000,000),
depending on the final construction
budget for the new stadium; the
delivery of the Cleveland Browns
team name, colors, history, records
and heritage to a trust for the benefit of the City and thereafter for
assignment to the new owner of the
Cleveland NFL franchise; the signing and delivery by the NFL of a
lease agreement with the City containing the promises by the NFL
that the Cleveland Browns will play
all regular season home games in
the stadium for not less than 30
years (subject to the option to play
one regular season home game
every two calendar years in a location other than in the Stadium), that
the NFL will cause the new owner
of the Cleveland NFL franchise to
accept the terms of the lease, including the 30-year obligation to play
games in Cleveland and the agreement that the City is entitled to specific performance of that obligation;
and
Whereas, the City wishes to continue to provide for the play of professional football and other public
attractions in the City as a source
of public relaxation and entertainment through the construction, ownership and leasing of a new stadium constituting a “sports facility”
as that term is defined in Sec.
307.673 of the Revised Code (the
“Act”); and
Whereas, the maintenance of public safety and order during the operation of the stadium will require
policing and regulation by the City
which can best be achieved by the
City’s acquisition and construction
of the stadium; and
Whereas, the City has been presented with economic feasibility

February 28, 1996
reports which conclude that the
acquisition and construction of a
stadium and the leasing of it to a
professional sports team and the
play of NFL football in the facility
will result in the creation of jobs
and employment opportunities and
that a professional football team
will improve the economic welfare
of the City and its people (through
increased spending of individuals
residing both inside and outside the
City); and
Whereas,
the
City
has
been
advised of and is aware of additional impacts of a football franchise, including without limitation:
free advertising of the City as a
tourism and business location; community pride and solidarity; and
community relations by encouraging
fans of differing racial, income and
ethnic backgrounds to associate and
cheer for a common cause; and
Whereas, the stadium will be
located in an urban renewal area of
the City known as the North Coast
Harbor
Community
Development
Plan Area and the City’s development of the stadium in that area
and the lease of the stadium to the
NFL and the new owner will be
undertaken for the foregoing purposes and for the elimination of conditions of blight determined to exist
in that Plan Area and to prevent the
reoccurrence of such conditions of
blight; and
Whereas, the attraction of a professional football team to the City
will not only enrich the City and
serve as a catalyst for development,
but will also project an image of
civic pride and commitment; and
Whereas, the additional non-economic impacts described above are
an essential condition in this Council’s decision to authorize the agreements described in this ordinance;
and
Whereas, in order to receive the
benefits of the NFL commitments
and to attract a professional football team to the City it will be necessary for the City to acquire and
construct a new stadium and to
enter into certain agreements and
financing
arrangements,
all
in
accordance with the Charter of the
City and the Constitution and laws
of the State, including the Act; and
Whereas, in order to acquire and
construct the stadium and for the
City to improve the economic welfare of its people, it is necessary
that the City promptly authorize
and approve the documents authorized hereby and, as a result, this
ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health and safety and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore.
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that, for the reasons set forth
in the preambles to this Ordinance,
the provision of a new stadium in
the City under the terms of the
agreements authorized herein and
the use of that stadium for the play
of professional football and other
events as a source of public relaxation and entertainment constitute a
public municipal purpose.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Mayor and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
are hereby authorized and directed
to enter into a Franchise Commit-

The City Record
ment Agreement between the City
and the NFL, providing for, among
other things: approval of an NFL
franchise with a home territory of
Cleveland, Ohio, commencing no
later than the first season of NFL
play occurring after a new stadium
has been constructed by the City;
placing in trust for the benefit of
the City and thereafter for assignment to the new owner of the Cleveland NFL franchise “Browns Heritage Property” as defined in the
Franchise Commitment Agreement,
including the Cleveland Browns
team, name, color, history, records
and heritage; the agreement by the
NFL
that
those
promises
are
enforceable by the City by specific
performance; and the financial commitments of the NFL to the costs of
construction described in the preamble to this Ordinance. The Franchise Commitment Agreement shall
be substantially in the form contained in File No. 303-96-A, with
such changes as may be approved
by the Mayor and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
based on their determination that
such changes are not adverse to the
City and are consistent with this
Ordinance,
which
determination
shall be conclusively evidenced by
their signing that Agreement.
Section 3. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Mayor and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
are hereby authorized and directed
to enter into a Stadium Financing
Agreement between the City and
NFL Enterprises, L.P., a Delaware
limited partnership jointly owned
by all of the existing member clubs
that comprise the NFL (“Enterprises”), providing for the contribution
by Enterprises of the Twenty-Eight
Million
Dollars
($28,000,000)
to
Forty-Eight
Million
Dollars
($48,000,000)
commitment
of
the
NFL to the costs of construction of
the new stadium (depending on the
actual cost of construction of the
stadium) and the participation by
Enterprises in the administration of
the design and construction of the
stadium, all subject to the conditions set forth therein and the
agreement by the NFL in the Franchise Commitment Agreement to
guarantee the payments of Enterprises.
The
Stadium
Financing
Agreement shall be substantially in
the form contained in the file referenced in Section 2, with such
changes as may be approved by the
Mayor and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties based on
their
determination
that
such
changes are not adverse to the City
and are consistent with this Ordinance, which determination shall be
conclusively
evidenced
by
their
signing the Agreement.
Section 4. That the Mayor and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties are hereby authorized to
accept contributions from the NFL
and its affiliates, including NFL
Enterprises, L.P., and from any
owner of an NFL franchise, toward
paying a portion of the cost of the
stadium improvements or making
payment on obligations of the City
issued for the purpose of making
the stadium improvements. To the
extent that any contributions are
paid to the City, they are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the Stadium Financing
Agreement and for the purpose of
making the stadium improvement.

273

5
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Mayor and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
are hereby authorized and directed
to enter into a Lease By Way Of
Concession between the City and
the NFL (and to be assigned by the
NFL to the new owner of the Cleveland NFL franchise) providing that
the Cleveland NFL franchise shall
play for 30 years all regular season
home games in the new stadium
(except for not more than one special game event every two years
that may be located outside of the
City), and the City shall have the
right to specific performance of that
30-year play obligation. The Lease
shall be substantially in the form
contained in the file referenced in
Section 2, with such changes as may
be approved by the Mayor and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties based on their determination that such changes are not
adverse to the City and are consistent with this Ordinance, which
determination shall be conclusively
evidenced by their signing that
Lease.
Section 6. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Mayor and the Director of
Finance are hereby authorized and
directed to enter into a Cooperative
Agreement among the City, the
County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority and the NFL providing
for the contribution by Cuyahoga
County of the excise tax on alcohol
and cigarettes from August 1, 2005
through July 31, 2015, approved by
the voters on November 7, 1995, to
pay costs of construction of a stadium and the cooperation of the
City, County, Port Authority and
NFL in matters relating to the
acquisition, construction, lease and
financing of the stadium. The Cooperative Agreement shall be substantially in the form contained in
the file referenced in Section 2, with
such changes as may be approved
by the Mayor and the Director of
Finance based on their determination that such changes are not
adverse to the City and are consistent with this Ordinance, which
determination shall be conclusively
evidenced by their signing the Cooperative Agreement.
Any funds
received by the City pursuant to the
Cooperative Agreement are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the Cooperative Agreement
and for the purpose of acquiring
and
constructing
the
stadium
improvements.
Section 7. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Mayor and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
are hereby authorized and directed
to enter into a Termination Of
Lease between the City and Cleveland Stadium Corp. and the Cleveland Browns, Inc., providing for
payment to the City by Cleveland
Stadium Corp. of damages to the
City in the amount of $9.3 million,
payable in four equal annual installments commencing in December
1996, and payment of the actual City
administrative costs and expenses
in an amount not to exceed $500,000
and the actual legal and other professional fees and expenses in an

6
amount not to exceed $1,750,000,
respectively. The Termination Of
Lease shall be substantially in the
form contained in the file referenced in Section 2, with such
changes as may be approved by the
Mayor and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties based on
their
determination
that
such
changes are not adverse to the City
and are consistent with this Ordinance, which determination shall be
conclusively
evidenced
by
their
signing the Termination of Lease.
Such payments are hereby appropriated for the purposes of paying City
administrative costs and expenses
and legal and other professional
fees and expenses.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept a loan in the
amount of up to Ten Million Dollars
($10,000,000) from the Cleveland
Development Partnership III, an
Ohio limited partnership, or any
other development partnership affiliated
with
Cleveland
Tomorrow
(“CDP”), for the purposes of financing a portion of the costs of the
design and construction of the stadium (the “CDP Loan”).
(a) The Director of Economic
Development is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to apply for the
CDP Loan, to enter into contract
with CDP, to pledge any and all collateral necessary to secure repayment thereof and receive the funds;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes of financing the design and
construction of the new stadium.
(b) The terms of the CDP Loan
shall include: a loan term not less
than twenty™five (25) years; principal and interest payments deferred
until a date not earlier than the
commencement of the twelfth (12th)
year of the loan term, provided that,
as an exception to this provision,
principal
and
interest
payments
may commence at such earlier time
determined by the Director of Economic Development as may be necessary to repay CDP in the event
the stadium project is not commenced by the City; such security
interests and collateral as may be
necessary to secure the pledge from
CDP to NFL, and such other loan
terms as may be determined by the
Director of Economic Development.
(c) The Director of Economic
Development is authorized to amend
the terms of the CDP Loan, from
time to time, as he deems necessary
to comply with the agreements, as
executed and amended, between the
City and the NFL and its affiliates.
(d) The proceeds of the CDP Loan
shall be deposited in such fund or
funds as determined by the Director
of Finance.
(e) The Director of Law is hereby authorized to prepare all documents required to implement and
effectuate the CDP Loan.
Section 9. The Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Director of
Law are authorized and directed to
take any and all such actions and
to execute and deliver any and all
additional documents, certificates,
and instruments as may in their
judgment be necessary, desirable,
advisable or appropriate to carry
out the transactions contemplated to
be performed by the City under the
Franchise Commitment Agreement,
the Stadium Financing Agreement,
the Lease, the Cooperative Agreement, and the Termination of Lease

The City Record
authorized herein, and under or pursuant to such other instruments and
agreements that are incorporated or
referenced therein.
Section 10. It is hereby found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements including the Charter of the City and any
applicable
provisions
of
Section
121.22 Ohio Revised Code.
Section 11. That each section of
this Ordinance and each part of
each
section
hereof
is
hereby
declared to be independent, and the
finding or holding of any section or
part of any section hereof to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section or part of any section
of this Ordinance.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Properties and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 304-96.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
a new stadium facility; authorizing
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
the
public
improvement and related purchases,
for retaining necessary consultants,
and to acquire necessary interests
in real property; and to enter into
agreements with the State of Ohio
and the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority to assist in the
making of the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing a new stadium
facility, including but not limited to
all site improvements, utility relocations and upgrades, street relocation, environmental improvements,
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and demolishing the
existing Cleveland Municipal Stadium (the “Improvement”), for the
Division of Convention Center and
Stadium,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the

274

February 28, 1996
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
Improvement may be treated as a
separate Improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a gross price
basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the items
comprising the necessary supplies
and materials for said Improvement,
including, but not limited to the
rental of necessary equipment, to be
purchased or procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
for a gross price for the Division of
Convention Center and Stadium,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Section 4. That, the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
employ by contract one or more
firms of consultants, including but
not limited to architects, engineers,
construction
manager
services,
asbestos, environmental, and demolition consultants, for the purpose of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed
staff
of
the
several
departments of the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement
the Improvement.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The services shall be performed in
such phases as are determined to be
necessary by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into such
other agreements as are necessary
to complete the planning, construction and demolition incidental to the
implementation of the Improvement,
which
agreements
shall
contain
such terms and conditions as the
Director of Law determines shall
best protect the public interest.
Section 6. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and
Supplies
is
hereby
authorized to acquire such interest(s) in real property as are necessary for the purpose of implementing the improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to execute on
behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire such interest(s) in real property as are necessary for the purpose of implementing the Improvement and to
employ and pay all fees for title
companies,
surveys,
escrows,

February 28, 1996
appraiser, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of such
property.
Section 8. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into one
or
more
agreements
with
the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority to assist in the implementation of the Improvement. To
the extent that any funds are
received by the City pursuant to
such agreement(s), they are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the agreement(s) and for
the purpose of making the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to apply for and
accept one or more grants from the
State of Ohio for the purpose of paying a portion of the cost of implementing the Improvement or making payment on obligations of the
City issued for the purpose of implementing
the
Improvement.
The
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is further authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to effectuate the
grant(s). Any funds received by the
City pursuant to the grant agreement(s) are hereby appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the grant
agreement(s) and for the purpose of
implementing the Improvement.
Section 10. That any salvage
materials from the demolition of the
existing Cleveland Municipal Stadium are hereby declared to be no
longer needed for a municipal purpose. The Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
are hereby authorized to sell such
salvage materials at such price and
under such terms and conditions as
they determine necessary to protect
the City’s interest.
Section 11. That the costs of the
Improvement and all contracts, purchases, and property acquisition
herein contemplated shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any monies accepted or
received in accordance with Sections 8 and 9 of this ordinance, the
fund or funds to which are credited
the proceeds from any taxes levied
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1025-A-95,
passed June 29, 1995, the fund or
funds to which are credited any
monies accepted or received from
the National Football League, its
affiliates and from any owner of an
NFL franchise and the Cleveland
Development Partnership and any
other development partnership affiliated with Cleveland Tomorrow, the
fund or funds to which are credited
any public financing for a purpose
which includes the making of the
Improvement and from Fund Nos. 10
SF 006, 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001 and 58
SF 001.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Properties
and
Recreation,
City
Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 305-96.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the acquisition by lease purchase of a sports facility, authorizing a ground lease and lease purchase agreement with respect to the
sports facility and authorizing and
approving other documents relating
to the sports facility and the financing thereof.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio (the “City”), a municipal corporation and political subdivision in
and of the State of Ohio (the
“State”) has provided and wishes to
continue to provide a source of public relaxation and entertainment
through the construction and leasing of a sports facility as that term
is defined in Sec. 307.673 of the
Revised Code (the “Act”) for the
playing
of
professional
football
games and the presentation of other
entertainment and public attractions; and
Whereas, the maintenance of public safety and order during the operation of such a sports facility will
require policing and regulation by
the City which can best be achieved
by the City’s acquisition and construction of that sports facility; and
Whereas, the City has reviewed
various economic feasibility reports
which conclude that the acquisition
and construction of such a sports
facility and the leasing of it to a
professional sports team will result
in the creation of jobs and employment opportunities and that a professional football team will improve
the economic welfare of the City
and its people through increased
spending of individuals residing
both inside and outside the City;
and
Whereas, the attraction of a professional football team to the City
would not only enrich the City and
serve as a catalyst for development,
but would also project an image of
civic pride and commitment; and
Whereas, in order to attract a professional football team to the City
it will be necessary for the City to
acquire and construct a new sports
facility; and
Whereas, the existing Municipal
Stadium is located in the urban
renewal area known as the City’s
North
Coast
Harbor
Community
Development Plan Area (the “Plan
Area”); and
Whereas, for the foregoing purposes and for the elimination of conditions of blight determined to exist
in the Plan Area, it has been proposed that Municipal Stadium be
demolished and that the new sports
facility be constructed on the same
site, thereby preventing the recurrence of said conditions of blight;
and
Whereas, it will be necessary for
the City to enter into certain financing arrangements and other agreements all in accordance with the
Charter of the City and the Constitution and laws of the State, including the Act in order to finance the
cost of a new sports facility; and
Whereas, in order to implement
the financing arrangements with
respect to the sports facility, it will
be necessary for the City to take the
following actions:
A. Execute and deliver a ground
lease (the “Ground Lease”) under
which the City will convey to the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority or other Ohio governmental body (the “Lessor”) a leasehold
interest in the real property upon
which the sports facility is to be

275

7
constructed (the “Facility Site”) for
a term of not more than the term of
the Lease by Way of Concession
between the City and the NFL providing for the lease of the sports
facility to a professional football
team;
B. Execute and deliver a lease
purchase agreement (the “Facility
Lease”) under which the City (a)
will sublease the Facility Site and
lease the sport facility (collectively,
with the Facility Site, the “Leased
Premises”) from the Lessor for an
Initial Term, as defined in the
Facility Lease, and for Renewal
Terms, as defined in the Facility
Lease, upon appropriations being
made by this Council of funds sufficient to enable the City to pay the
Base Rent and Additional Rent, as
defined in the Facility Lease, during the Initial Term and Renewal
Terms (each a “Lease Term”) and
(b) will have an obligation, which
will constitute a “public obligation”
as defined in Ohio Revised Code
Section 133.01, to pay Base Rent and
Additional Rent during each Lease
Term subject to such appropriations;
C. Approve a trust agreement (the
“Trust Agreement”) between the
Lessor and a corporate trustee (the
“Trustee”) pursuant to which (a)
the Lessor will assign its interest in
the Ground Lease and the Facility
Lease to the Trustee, (b) the Lessor
will direct the Trustee to and the
Trustee will execute not to exceed
$175,000,000
aggregate
principal
amount of Certificates of Participation (the “Certificates”) in the payments of Base Rent to be made by
the City under the Facility Lease,
which Certificates will constitute
“fractionalized interests in public
obligations”, as defined in Ohio
Revised Code Section 133.01, and (c)
proceeds of the sale of the Certificates will be used to pay the cost
of the sports facility;
D. Execute a letter of representations (the “Letter of Representations”) to A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.,
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.,
Inc., Smith Barney Inc., Grigsby
Brandford
&
Co.,
Inc.,
Lehman
Brothers and Key Capital Markets,
Inc. (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”), the Lessor, and/or and the
Trustee evidencing the approval of
a certificate purchase agreement
(the
“Purchase
Agreement”)
between the Original Purchaser, the
Lessor and the Trustee setting forth
the purchase price and other terms
upon which the Original Purchaser
will purchase the Certificates from
the Trustee;
E. Provide certain information
relating to the sports facility and
the City to the Original Purchaser
for inclusion in a disclosure document to be used in connection with
the initial offering of the Certificates by the Original Purchaser; and
Whereas, in order to acquire and
construct a sports facility and for
the City to improve the economic
welfare of its people, it is necessary
that the City promptly authorize
and approve the Ground Lease, the
Facility Lease, the Trust Agreement
and other documents authorized
hereby and, as a result, this ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health and safety and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Public Municipal Pur-

8
pose: It is hereby determined that,
for the reasons set forth in the preambles to this ordinance, the acquisition and financing by the City of
the sports facility pursuant to the
Ground Lease and the Facility
Lease and the use of the sports
facility as a source of public relaxation and entertainment constitute a
public municipal purpose.
Section 2. Ground Lease, Facility
Lease and Trust Agreement. The
Mayor and the Director of Finance
are each authorized and directed to
sign and deliver the Ground Lease
and the Facility Lease and to signify approval of the Trust Agreement in substantially the forms as
are now on file with the Clerk of
Council after approval thereof by
the Director of Law. The Ground
Lease, the Facility Lease and the
Trust Agreement are approved in
substantially the forms as are now
on file with the Clerk of Council,
together
with
any
changes
or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
that are approved by the Mayor and
the Director of Finance and the
Director of Law on behalf of the
City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Ground Lease and the Facility
Lease or amendments thereto and
the signifying of approval of the
Trust Agreement or amendments
thereto. This approval of the Trust
Agreement is subject to the consent
of the City (evidenced by the signing of the Letter of Representations) to the appointment of the
Trustee which shall be a trust company or bank having the powers of
a trust company in or outside of the
State and authorized to exercise corporate trust powers in the State and
having a reported capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000.
Section 3. Leased Premises. This
Council hereby determines that the
Leased Premises are essential to the
proper, efficient and economic operation of the City.
Section 4. Determination of Base
Rent and Sale of the Certificates.
(a) Base Rent. The Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to negotiate and provide
for the terms of the Base Rent, as
defined
in
the
Facility
Lease,
including the aggregate principal
component thereof, which for the
Initial Term and all Renewal Terms
in
aggregate
shall
not
exceed
$175,000,000 and the interest components thereof, which interest components may be fixed rate interest
components or variable rate interest
components, the weighted average
of which fixed rate interest components shall not exceed 8% per
annum, provided that if the interest
rate component is not to be excluded from gross income for federal
income tax purposes, the fixed interest
rate
components
shall
not
exceed 12%, and the maximum of
which variable rate interest components shall not exceed 15% per
annum.
The City acknowledges that the
principal component of the Facility
Lease shall be equal to the principal amount of the Certificates and
shall be that amount which, together with other funds to be made
available for the acquisition and
construction of the sports facility,
shall be sufficient to pay the cost
of the sports facility as defined in
Section 307.673(A)(4) of the Act,
including without limitation the
cost of providing any reserves that

The City Record
the Director of Finance determines
are necessary and appropriate for
the Certificates to be issued on the
terms most favorable to the City as
the payor on the public obligations
in which the Certificates constitute
fractionalized
interests
(which
determination shall be confirmed by
the Director of Finance by the
Director’s signing of the Letter of
Representations described below),
and the costs of issuance of the Certificates, which shall not exceed 4%
of the aggregate principal amount
of the Certificates (exclusive of any
original issue discount), and which
the Director of Finance determines
are necessary and reasonable in
light of the character of the Certificates (which determination shall
be confirmed by the Director of
Finance by the Director’s execution
of the Letter of Representations).
The City further acknowledges that
the payment schedule for the Certificates shall include interest components on the principal amount
thereof which shall be based upon
the interest components of the Base
Rent.
The
Certificates
may
be
issued in one or more series which
may differ as to interest rate components, credit enhancement, priority of payment and other terms. The
Base Rent to be payable under and
in accordance with the Facility
Lease during the Initial Term of the
Facility Lease and any Renewal
Terms, shall be an amount sufficient to cover the amount of principal of and interest component on
the outstanding Certificates of any
series that are due and payable during that Initial Term or Renewal
Term, and such Base Rent shall be
specified or determined in an exhibit to the Facility Lease; provided,
however, that the City’s payment of
Base Rent and Additional Rent is
Subject to Appropriation and Certification as provided in the Facility
Lease and nothing in the Facility
Lease, the Certificates or the Trust
Agreement constitutes a pledge by
the Lessee, or an obligation of the
Lessee, of any taxes or other moneys to the payments due thereunder.
(b)
Purchase
Agreement.
The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, the Letter of
Representations attached as Exhibit A to the Purchase Agreement, in
substantially the form as is now on
file with the Clerk of this Council
after approval thereof by the Director of Law, signifying approval of
the Purchase Agreement and setting
forth the schedule of Base Rent and
the principal components and interest components thereof, the costs of
issuance of the Certificates and the
reserves for the Certificates and
approving the appointment of the
Trustee. The Purchase Agreement
and the Letter of Representations
are approved, together with any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance and Director of Law
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Letter of Representations or amendments thereto.
(c) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Original Purchaser, a disclosure
document is appropriate relating to
the initial offering of the Certificates, the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the City and in that officer’s official capacity, is authorized

276

February 28, 1996
to (i) cooperate with the Original
Purchaser in the preparation of, and
the making of modifications, completions or changes of or supplements to, such a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and to certify
or otherwise represent, when the
disclosure document is to be deemed
final or is final, (iii) authorize the
use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements
thereto in connection with the initial offering of the Certificates, and
(iv) sign certificates, statements or
other documents in connection with
the finality, accuracy and completeness of that disclosure document.
(d) Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. For the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners
from time to time of the Certificates, the City agrees, as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Certificates under SEC Rule 15c2-12
(the “Rule”), to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data, audited
financial statements and notices, in
such manner, as may be required
for purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i)
of the Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council after
approval thereof by the Director of
Law, with any changes or amendments that are not inconsistent with
this ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
and the Director of Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of that Certificate or amendments to it. The agreement formed,
collectively, by this paragraph and
that Certificate, shall be the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
purposes of the Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the
annual appropriation of any funds
that may be necessary to perform it.
(e) Application for Rating or
Insurance. If, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance after consultation with the Original Purchaser,
the filing of an application for (i)
a rating on a series of Certificates
by one or more nationally-recognized rating agencies, (ii) a policy
of
insurance
or
other
credit
enhancement facility from a company or companies to better assure the
payment of principal of and interest
on a series of Certificates, or (iii)
a
surety
bond
or
other
credit
enhancement facility from a company or other companies to satisfy the
reserve requirement for a series of
Certificates is in the best interest of
and financially advantageous to
this City, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare and submit
those applications, to provide to
each such agency, company or other
credit enhancement facility provider
such
information
as
may
be
required for the purpose. The cost
of obtaining each such rating, policy, bond or credit enhancement
facility, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, shall be paid from the proceeds of the Certificates.
Section 5. Other Instruments. The

February 28, 1996
Mayor, the Director of Finance, the
Director of Law and the Clerk of
Council are each hereby authorized
and directed to take any and all
other actions and to execute any
and all other instruments, including
but not limited to interest rate
hedges, swap agreements, forward
purchase agreements, certificates
and documents as may in their judgment be necessary, desirable, advisable or appropriate in connection
with the execution and delivery of
the Ground Lease and the Facility
Lease, the execution and delivery of
the Certificates by the Trustee and
the purchase of the Certificates by
the Original Purchaser in order to
give effect to the transactions contemplated to be performed on the
part of the City under the Ground
Lease, the Facility Lease and the
Letter of Representations.
Section 6.
Tax Covenants. The
Director of Finance, as the fiscal
officer, or any other officer having
responsibility
for
executing
the
Facility Lease, is, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing
or with any other officer or employee of the City, authorized and directed (a) to cooperate with the Original Purchaser and the Trustee by
making, on behalf of the City, such
covenants and representations in
the Facility Lease as are appropriate and necessary so that (a) the
Lease and the Certificates will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as obligations to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest components of the Lease and on the Certificates will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code and to the effect that
the City will take or cause to be
taken such actions that may be
required of it for the interest components of the Lease and on the Certificates to be and remain excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes and that it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
execution of the Facility Lease is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Facility Lease and
the Certificates as the City is permitted to or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Lease and the Certificates or the
interest
components
thereof
or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,

The City Record
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
interest components of the Lease
and on the Certificates, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript for the Certificates,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
from the sale of the Certificates, the
facts, circumstances and estimates
on which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest
component of and the tax status of
the
Certificates.
Notwithstanding
the foregoing or any other provisions of this ordinance to the contrary, if the Director of Finance
determines prior to the execution
and delivery of the Purchase Agreement and Letter of Representations
that it is necessary and appropriate
and in the best interests of the City
for the interest components of the
Base Rent to be included in gross
income for federal income tax purposes, the City shall not be bound
by the covenants of this Section 6.
Section 7. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law. It is hereby found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements including the Charter of the City and any
applicable
provisions
of
Section
121.22 Ohio Revised Code.
Section 8. Severability. Each section of this ordinance and each part
of each section hereof is hereby
declared to be independent, and the
finding or holding of any section or
part of any section hereof to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section or part of any section
of this ordinance.
Section 9. Effective Date. For the
reasons set forth in the preamble
hereto, this ordinance is hereby
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 306-96.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Notes in the principal amount not to
exceed $20,000,000, in anticipation of
the issuance of bonds, and the
issuance and sale of Bonds in the
principal amount not to exceed
$20,000,000 to pay a portion of the
costs of constructing a sports facility, including the costs of demolition of Municipal Stadium and site
preparation therefor, payable from
City Nontax Revenues, and related
matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio (the “City”) has provided and

277

9
wishes to continue to provide a
source of public relaxation and
entertainment through the construction and leasing of a sports facility, as that term is defined in Sec.
307.673 of the Revised Code, for the
playing
of
professional
football
games and the presentation of other
entertainment and public attractions; and
Whereas, the maintenance of public safety and order during the operation of such a sports facility will
require policing and regulation by
the City which can best be achieved
by the City’s acquisition and construction of that sports facility; and
Whereas, the City has reviewed
various economic feasibility reports
which conclude that the acquisition
and construction of such a sports
facility and the leasing of it to a
professional sports team will result
in the creation of jobs and employment opportunities and that a professional football team will improve
the economic welfare of the City
and its people through increased
spending of individuals residing
both inside and outside the City;
and
Whereas, the attraction of a professional football team to the City
would not only enrich the City and
serve as a catalyst for development,
but would also project an image of
civic pride and commitment; and
Whereas, in order to attract a professional football team to the City
it will be necessary for the City to
acquire and construct a new sports
facility; and
Whereas, the existing Municipal
Stadium is located in the urban
renewal area known as the City’s
North
Coast
Harbor
Community
Development Plan Area (the “Plan
Area”); and
Whereas, for the foregoing purposes and for the elimination of conditions of blight determined to exist
in the Plan Area, it has been proposed that Municipal Stadium be
demolished and that the new sports
facility be constructed on the same
site, thereby preventing the recurrence of said conditions of blight;
and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance and
sale of the Notes described in Section 3 in order to advance funds to
pay for the costs of demolition of
Municipal Stadium and site preparation for the sports facility; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance
as fiscal officer of this City has certified to this Council that the estimated life or period of usefulness of
the improvement described in Section 1 is at least five years, the estimated maximum maturity of the
bonds described in Section 1 is 30
years, and the maximum maturity
of the Notes described in Section 8,
to be issued in anticipation of the
bonds, is 20 years; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a
municipal department and providing
for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, property, health or
safety in that the issuance of the
Notes and Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance are needed to provide
funds to proceed in a timely manner with the construction of the
sports facility pursuant to City
agreements with the National Football League and to ensure an NFL
franchise will be located in the City
at the earliest possible time; now,
therefore

10
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Issuance of Bonds. It is
necessary for the reasons set forth
in the preambles to this Ordinance
to issue bonds of this City in the
aggregate principal amount of not
to exceed $20,000,000 (the Bonds) to
pay a portion of the costs of constructing a sports facility, including
the costs of demolition of Municipal
Stadium and site preparation therefor (the “Project”), including costs
of issuance of the Bonds, and to
retire any Notes provided in Section
8 hereof. The Director of Finance
shall
determine
the
principal
amount of the Bonds based on the
amount she determines is necessary
to pay costs of the Project in light
of the anticipated timing of the
issuance of any other obligations to
pay costs of the Project. The principal amount of the Bonds issued
shall be set forth in the certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Bonds and signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance (the Final Terms Certificate). The Notes may be retired
from the proceeds of other obligations issued other than the Bonds or
from other monies available for
such purpose and the Bonds may be
issued to pay costs of the Project
without the prior issuance of the
Notes.
Section 2. Terms of Bonds.
(a) Definitions. In addition to the
words and terms elsewhere defined
in this Ordinance, unless the context
or use clearly indicates another or
different meaning or intent:
“Authorized Denominations” means,
with respect to Capital Appreciation
Bonds, if any, as described below,
the denomination equal to the original principal amount that, when
interest is accrued and compounded
thereon on each Interest Accretion
Date to the stated maturity of the
Bonds, will equal a $5,000 Maturity
Amount or any integral multiple
thereof and, with respect to any
Current Interest Bonds, $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof.
“Closing Date” means the date of
physical delivery of, and payment of
the purchase price for, the Bonds.
“Compound
Accreted
Amount”
means, with respect to Capital
Appreciation Bonds, if any, the original principal amount thereof plus
interest accrued and compounded on
each Interest Accretion Date to the
date of maturity or other date of
determination.
The
Compound
Accreted Amount per $5,000 Maturity Amount of the Capital Appreciation Bonds of each maturity as of
each Interest Accretion Date shall
be set forth in the Final Terms Certificate. The Compound Accreted
Amount of any Capital Appreciation
Bond for each maturity as of any
date other than an Interest Accretion Date is the sum of (a) the Compound Accreted Amount for such
Bond on the immediately preceding
Interest Accretion Date plus (b) the
product
of
(i)
the
difference
between (A) the Compound Accreted Amount of that Bond on the
immediately
preceding
Interest
Accretion Date and (B) the Compound Accreted Amount of that
Bond on the immediately succeeding
Interest Accretion Date, times (ii)
the ratio of (C) the number of days
from the immediately preceding
Interest Accretion Date to the date
of determination to (D) the total
number of days from that immediately preceding Interest Accretion
Date to the immediately succeeding

The City Record
Interest Accretion Date; provided,
however, that in determining the
Compound Accreted Amount of a
Capital Appreciation Bond as of a
date prior to the first Interest Accretion Date, the Closing Date shall be
deemed to be the immediately preceding Interest Accretion Date and
the original principal amount of
that Bond shall be deemed to be the
Compound Accreted Amount on the
Closing Date.
“Interest Accretion Dates” means,
with respect to Capital Appreciation
Bonds, if any, semi-annual dates
commencing not later than December 1, 1998.
“Interest Payment Dates” means,
with respect to Capital Appreciation
Bonds, if any, the principal and
interest due and payable at the stated maturity of the Bonds.
“Maturity Amount” means, with
respect
to
Capital
Appreciation
Bonds, if any, the principal and
interest due and payable at the
stated maturity of that Bond.
“Principal Payment Dates” means
annually on the first day of the
same month each year commencing
no later than December 1, 2006 and
ending no later than December 1,
2030, for a total of not to exceed 30
payments.
(b) General. The Bonds shall be
issued in one lot and only as fully
registered Bonds and shall be dated
no later than December 1, 1997, as
established
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Final Terms Certificate. In accordance with her determination of the best interest of and
financial advantages to the City, the
Director of Finance may designate
in the Final Terms Certificate certain maturities of the Bonds as
“Capital Appreciation Bonds” with
the remaining maturities designated
as the “Current Interest Bonds,” as
further described in this Ordinance.
(c) Interest and Denominations.
The Current Interest Bonds, if any,
shall be issued in an aggregate
principal amount as established by
the Director of Finance in the Final
Terms Certificate, and shall be
issued in denominations of $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, but in
no case as to a particular maturity
date exceeding the principal amount
of Current Interest Bonds maturing
on that date. The Current Interest
Bonds shall bear the rate or rates
of interest per year (computed on a
360-day per year basis) as shall be
specified by the Director of Finance
(subject to the parameters set forth
hereafter in this Section) in the
Final Terms Certificate; provided,
that the Current Interest Bonds of
any one stated maturity all shall
bear the same rate of interest. Interest on the Current Interest Bonds
shall be payable at such rate or
rates semiannually (the CIB Interest Payment Dates), commencing no
later than December 1, 1998, until
the principal amount has been paid
or provided for. The Current Interest Bonds shall bear interest from
the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for or,
if no interest has been paid or provided for, from their date.
The Capital Appreciation Bonds,
if any, shall be issued in an aggregate principal amount set forth in
the Final Terms Certificate, shall
bear interest from the Closing Date
at the compounding rate or rates of
interest (computed on a 360-day per
year basis), accrued and compounded on each Interest Accretion Date
and payable at maturity, which will
result in the aggregate Maturity

278

February 28, 1996
Amounts payable at maturity, as
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance (subject to the parameters set forth hereafter in this Section) in the Final Terms Certificate;
provided, that the Capital Appreciation Bonds of any one stated maturity all shall bear the same compounding rate of interest. The total
interest accrued on any Capital
Appreciation Bond as of any particular date shall be an amount equal
to the amount by which the Compound Accreted Amount of that Capital Appreciation Bond exceeds the
original principal amount of that
Capital Appreciation Bond as of
that
date.
Capital
Appreciation
Bonds shall be issued in Authorized
Denominations, but in no case as to
a particular maturity date exceeding the principal amount maturing
on that date.
The rate or rates of interest per
year to be borne by the Bonds, as
specified by the Director of Finance
in the Final Terms Certificate, shall
be such that the Bonds (taking into
account the Current Interest Bonds
and the Capital Appreciation Bonds,
if any) shall have a True Interest
Rate (as hereinafter defined) not
exceeding 9% per year, provided
that if the interest rate is not to be
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, the True
Interest Rate shall not exceed 11%.
As used in this paragraph, “True
Interest Rate” means the rate determined by doubling the semi-annual
interest rate, computed semi-annually, necessary to discount all payments of principal and interest on
the Bonds to the purchase price of
the Bonds, exclusive of any accrued
interest.
(d)
Principal
Maturities.
The
Bonds shall mature or be payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements (as
hereinafter defined and described)
as specified in the Final Terms Certificate on the Principal Payment
Dates in the principal amounts such
that the total principal and interest
payment on the Bonds in any fiscal
year in which principal is payable
(beginning with the second such fiscal year) will not be more than
three times the total of the principal and interest payments in the
immediately preceding year.
Consistent with the foregoing and
in accordance with her determination of the best interest of and
financial advantages to the City, the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Final Terms Certificate (i) the
principal amount of Bonds, if any,
maturing or payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on each Principal
Payment Date, (ii) the Principal
Payment Date or Dates, if any, on
which Bonds not subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption (Serial Bonds) shall mature; (iii) the
Principal Payment Date or Dates, if
any, on which Bonds subject to
mandatory sinking fund redemption
(Term Bonds) shall be stated to
mature; (iv) the Principal Payment
Date or Dates on which any Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption (Mandatory Redemption Dates) and (v) the
number of annual Principal Payment Dates (not to exceed 30).
(e) Redemption. The Bonds shall
be subject to redemption prior to
stated maturity as follows:
(i)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption of Term Bonds. Term
Bonds, if any, shall be subject to
mandatory redemption in part by lot

February 28, 1996
and
be
redeemed
pursuant
to
mandatory sinking fund requirements, at a redemption price of
100% of the principal amount of any
Current Interest Bonds or the Compounded Accreted Value of any Capital Appreciation Bonds redeemed,
plus accrued interest to the redemption date, on the applicable Mandatory Redemption Dates and in the
principal amounts payable on those
Dates for which provision is made
above (such Dates and amounts, the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements).
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Bond Registrar (as defined in Section 4 of this
Ordinance) for payment of principal
of and interest on Term Bonds on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
shall include an amount sufficient
to redeem on that Date the principal amount of Term Bonds payable
on that Date pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (less the amount of
any credit as provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Bond Registrar for
cancellation Term Bonds in any
aggregate principal amount and to
receive a credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) of the City for Term
Bonds stated to mature on the same
Principal Payment Date as the
Term Bonds so delivered. That
option shall be exercised by the City
on or before the forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Bond Registrar a certificate, signed
by the Director of Finance, setting
forth the extent of the credit to be
applied with respect to the then current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirement for Term
Bonds stated to mature on the same
Principal Payment Date. If the certificate is not timely furnished to
the Bond Registrar, the applicable
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) shall not be reduced. A credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) also shall be
received by the City for any Term
Bonds which prior thereto have
been redeemed (other than through
the operation of the applicable
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements) or purchased for
cancellation and canceled by the
Bond Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against
any
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement for
Term Bonds stated to mature on the
same Principal Payment Date as the
Term Bonds so redeemed or purchased and canceled.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Bond Registrar at 100% of the
principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) for Term Bonds
stated to mature on the same Principal Payment Date as the Term
Bonds so delivered, redeemed or purchased and canceled. Any excess of
that amount over the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against any subsequent Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Require-

The City Record
ments (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligations) for Term
Bonds stated to mature on that Principal Payment Date, in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(ii) Optional Redemption. If provided by the Director of Finance in
the Final Terms Certificate, the Current Interest Bonds shall be subject
to redemption by and at the sole
option of the City, in whole or in
part in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the dates, in the years and at the
redemption prices (expressed as a
percentage of the principal amount
to be redeemed), plus accrued interest to the redemption date, as determined by the Director of Finance in
the Final Terms Certificate; provided that the earliest optional redemption date shall not be earlier than
December 1, 2006, and the redemption price for the earliest optional
redemption date shall not be greater
than 103%.
If optional redemption of Term
Bonds at a redemption price exceeding 100% of the principal amount to
be redeemed is to take place as of
any Mandatory Redemption Date
applicable to those Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds, or portions thereof, to
be redeemed optionally shall be
selected by lot prior to the selection
by lot of the Term Bonds of the
same maturity to be redeemed on
the same date by operation of the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements. Bonds to be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph shall be redeemed only upon
written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Bond Registrar,
given upon the direction of this
Council by adoption of a resolution
or passage of an Ordinance. That
notice shall specify the redemption
date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at
least 45 days prior to the redemption date or such shorter period as
shall be acceptable to the Bond Registrar.
(iii) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for optional redemption
at one time and Bonds of more than
one maturity are then outstanding,
the Bonds that are called shall be
called as selected by, and selected
in a manner determined by, the
City. If fewer than all of the Bonds
of a single maturity are to be
redeemed, the selection of Bonds of
that maturity to be redeemed, or
portions thereof in amounts of $5,000
or any integral multiple thereof,
shall be made by lot in a manner
determined by the Bond Registrar.
In the case of a partial redemption
of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as if it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all, of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then, upon notice of redemption of a $5,000 unit or units, the
registered owner of that Bond shall
surrender the Bond to the Bond
Registrar (i) for payment of the
redemption price of the $5,000 unit
or units of principal amount called
for redemption (including, without
limitation, the interest accrued to
the date fixed for redemption and
any premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner, of a new Bond or Bonds of
any
authorized
denomination
or

279

11
denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unmatured and unredeemed portion of,
and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(iv) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Bond Registrar on behalf of
the City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Bond subject to redemption
in whole or in part at the registered
owner’s address shown on the Bond
Register (as defined in Section 6 of
this Ordinance) maintained by the
Bond Registrar at the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding
that mailing. Failure to receive
notice by mail or any defect in that
notice regarding any Bond, however, shall not affect the validity of
the proceedings for the redemption
of any Bond.
(v) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Bond Registrar to the registered
owners as provided above, there
shall be deposited with the Bond
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Bond Registrar,
will be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
thereof,
plus
accrued interest to the redemption
date, all of the redeemable Bonds
for which notice of redemption has
been given. Notice having been
mailed in the manner provided in
the preceding paragraph hereof, the
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall become due
and payable on the redemption date,
and, subject to Section 5 of this
Ordinance, upon presentation and
surrender thereof at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid at the redemption price,
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. If moneys for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, together
with accrued interest thereon to the
redemption date, are held by the
Bond Registrar on the redemption
date, so as to be available therefor
on that date and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail as aforesaid, then from and
after the redemption date those
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If those
moneys shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail as aforesaid, those Bonds and
portions thereof shall continue to
bear interest, until they are paid, at
the same rate as they would have
borne had they not been called for
redemption. All moneys held by the
Bond Registrar for the redemption
of particular Bonds shall be held in
trust for the account of the registered owners thereof and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
Section 3. Execution of Bonds.

12
The Bonds shall be signed by the
Mayor and the Director of Finance,
in the name of the City and in their
official capacities, provided that
either or both of those signatures
may be a facsimile, and shall bear
the seal of the City or a facsimile
thereof. Pursuant to Section 83 of
the City’s Charter, the Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon her approval
of the form and correctness by her
manual or facsimile signature. The
Bonds shall be issued in the denominations and numbers as requested
by
the
original
purchaser
and
approved
by
the
Director
of
Finance, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary terms, for which they are issued
and that they are issued pursuant
to this Ordinance. No Bond shall be
valid or obligatory for any purpose
or shall be entitled to any security
or benefit under this Ordinance
unless and until the certificate of
authentication printed on the Bond
is signed by the Bond Registrar (as
defined in Section 4) as authenticating agent. Authentication by the
Bond Registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that the Bond so authenticated has been duly issued, signed
and delivered under, and is entitled
to the security and benefit of, this
Ordinance.
The
certificate
of
authentication may be signed by
any authorized officer or employee
of the Bond Registrar or by any
other person acting as an agent of
the Bond Registrar and approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. The same person need not
sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds.
Section 4. Bond Registrar. The
Director of Finance shall designate
a bank or trust company to act as
the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Bonds (the Bond Registrar) after determining that the
payment at that bank or trust company will not endanger the funds or
securities of the City and that proper procedures and safeguards are
available for that purpose. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, a Bond Registrar Agreement between the City and the Bond
Registrar in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Bond Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section
5.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges. The debt charges on the
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America without deduction for the services of the Bond Registrar as paying agent. Principal and any premium on the Current Interest Bonds
shall be payable when due upon presentation and surrender of the
Bonds at the principal corporate
trust office of the Bond Registrar.
Interest on a Current Interest Bond
shall be paid on each CIB Interest
Payment Date by check or draft
mailed to the person in whose name
the Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section 6) at the close of business on

The City Record
the 15th day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment Date (the Record Date). The
debt charges on the Capital Appreciation Bonds shall be payable when
due upon presentation and surrender of the Capital Appreciation
Bonds at the principal corporate
trust office of the Bond Registrar.
Section 6. Transfer and Exchange
of Bonds. So long as any of the
Bonds remain outstanding, the City
will cause the Bond Registrar to
maintain and keep at its principal
corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration,
exchange
and
transfer
of
Bonds as provided in this Section
(the Bond Register). Subject to the
provisions of Section 5, the person
in whose name a Bond is registered
on the Bond Register shall be
regarded as the absolute owner of
that Bond for all purposes of this
Ordinance.
Payment
of
or
on
account of the debt charges on any
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Bond Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any Authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Bond Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Bond Registrar. A Bond may be
transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender of the Bond at the principal corporate trust office of the Bond Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Bond Registrar. Upon exchange or
transfer the Bond Registrar shall
complete, authenticate and deliver a
new Bond or Bonds of any Authorized Denomination or Denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Bond Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Bonds only after the
new Bonds are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Bonds exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Bond Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Bonds in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and
Bond Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Bond Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
special obligations of the City, evidencing the same debt, and entitled
to the same security and benefit

280

February 28, 1996
under this Ordinance, as the Bonds
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer. Neither the City nor the
Bond Registrar shall be required to
make any exchange or transfer of a
Bond during the period beginning at
the opening of business 15 days
before the day of the mailing of a
notice of redemption of Bonds and
ending at the close of business on
the day of such mailing or to transfer or exchange any Bond selected
for redemption, in whole or in part.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be in the best interests
of and financially advantageous to
the City, the Bonds may be issued
in book entry form in accordance
with the provisions of this Section.
As used in this Section and this
Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and
the principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants
or otherwise, a book entry system
to record ownership of beneficial
interests in Bonds or the principal
and interest, and to effect transfers
of Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a
book entry system is utilized, (i)
the Bonds may be issued in the form
of a single, fully registered Bond
representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (ii) the beneficial owners in book entry form
shall have no right to receive Bonds
in the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be
transferable
or
exchangeable,
except
for
transfer
to
another
Depository or to another nominee of
a Depository, without further action
by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified

February 28, 1996
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the Bonds from
the Depository, and authenticate
and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the assigns of the
Depository or its nominee, all at the
cost and expense (including any
costs of printing), if the event is not
the result of City action or inaction,
of those persons requesting such
issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 7. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds are sold at private sale to
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., Pryor,
McClendon,
Counts
&
Co.,
Inc.,
Smith, Barney Inc., Grigsby Brandford & Co., Inc., Lehman Brothers
and Key Capital Markets, Inc. (collectively, the Original Purchaser) at
a purchase price of not less than
97% of par plus any accrued interest from the date of the Bonds to
the date of their delivery to the
Original Purchaser, with the principal amount of the Bonds (including
respective principal amounts of Current Interest Bonds and Capital
Appreciation Bonds), final purchase
price, interest rate or rates, annual
principal installments, Serial Bonds,
Term Bonds, Mandatory Redemption
Dates and Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements,
any
optional redemption provisions, and
such other terms and conditions, all
as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate in accordance with law and
the provisions of this Ordinance and
the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
described below. The Director of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name of and on behalf of the
City, the Bond Purchase Agreement
between the City and the Original
Purchaser in substantially the form
as is now on file with the Clerk of
Council. The Bond Purchase Agreement is approved, together with any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance
and not substantially adverse to the
City and that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Bond Purchase Agreement or
amendments thereto. The Director
of Finance shall cause the Bonds to
be prepared and signed and delivered, together with a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds, to the Original Purchaser upon payment of the
purchase price. The Mayor, the
Clerk of Council, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are each authorized and directed to
sign
any
transcript
certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments, including
but not limited to interest rate
hedges, swap agreements and forward purchase agreements and to
take such actions as are necessary

The City Record
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance.
Section 8. Issuance of Notes. It is
necessary for the reasons set forth
in the preambles to this Ordinance
to issue and this Council determines
that notes in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $20,000,000
(the Notes) shall be issued in anticipation of the issuance of the Bonds.
The Notes shall bear interest at a
rate or rates not to exceed 7% per
year (computed on a 360-day per
year basis), payable at maturity or
at any date of earlier prepayment
as provided for in Section 9 of this
Ordinance and until the principal
amount is paid or payment is provided for. The rate or rates of interest on the Notes shall be determined
by the Director of Finance in the
certificate or certificates awarding
the Notes in accordance with Section
11 of this Ordinance (the Certificate
of Award). The Notes may be issued
from time to time in one or more
series if so provided in the Certificate of Award, provided that a separate Certificate of Award shall be
executed for each series and the
last series of Notes shall be authorized and sold not later than December 31, 1997.
Section 9. Payment of Principal.
The debt charges on the Notes shall
be payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if so requested by
the Original Purchaser, and shall be
payable, without deduction for services of any paying agent. The
Director of Finance may serve as
the City’s paying agent for the
Notes or the Director of Finance
shall designate a bank or trust company to serve as the City’s paying
agent (the Paying Agent) after
determining that payment at that
bank or trust company will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and that proper procedures
and safeguards are available for
that purpose. The Notes of each
series shall be dated the date of
issuance of the respective series and
shall mature on a date to be determined in the Certificate of Award
for the respective series, provided
that such date shall not be later
than twelve months from the date
of issuance of the respective series
of Notes. If agreed to by the Original Purchaser, the Notes shall be
prepayable without penalty or premium at the option of the City at
any time prior to maturity as provided in this Ordinance. Prepayment
prior to maturity shall be made by
deposit with the Paying Agent of
the principal amount of the Notes
together with interest accrued thereon to the date of prepayment. The
City’s right of prepayment shall be
exercised by mailing a notice of prepayment, stating the date of prepayment and the name and address
of the Paying Agent, by certified or
registered mail to the original purchaser of the Notes not less than
seven days prior to the date of that
deposit, unless that notice is waived
by the original purchaser of the
Notes. If money for prepayment is
on deposit with the Paying Agent
on the specified prepayment date
following the giving of that notice
(unless the requirement of that
notice is waived as stated above),
interest on the principal amount prepaid shall cease to accrue on the
prepayment date, and upon the
request of the Director of Finance
the Original Purchaser of the Notes

281

13
shall arrange for the delivery of the
Notes at the designated office of the
Paying Agent for prepayment and
surrender and cancellation.
Section 10. Execution of Notes.
The Notes shall be signed by the
Mayor and Director of Finance, in
the name of the City and in their
official capacities, provided that one
of those signatures may be a facsimile, and shall bear the seal of the
City or a facsimile thereof. Pursuant
to Section 83 of the City’s Charter,
the Director of Law shall prepare
the Notes and shall endorse thereon
her approval of the form and correctness thereof by her manual or
facsimile signature. The Notes shall
be issued in the denominations and
numbers as requested by the original purchaser and approved by the
Director of Finance. The entire principal amount may be represented by
a single note, and may be issued as
fully registered securities in accordance with Section 133.40 of the
Revised Code and in book-entry or
other certificated form in accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code if it is determined by
the Director of Finance that the
issuance of fully registered securities in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Notes. The
Notes may be issued in the denominations of $100,000 each or in any
denomination that is the sum of (i)
$100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or any whole
multiple
thereof
and
are
not
exchangeable for other Notes in
denominations less than $100,000.
The Notes shall not have coupons
attached, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary terms, for which they are issued
and that they are issued pursuant
to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Sale of Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered at par
and accrued interest to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if the
Trustees refuse to take any or all
of them, the Director of Finance
shall offer them to the Mayor and
the Director of Law for purchase for
credit of the Treasury Investment
Account and, if not purchased for
the Treasury Investment Account,
the Notes shall be sold at not less
than par plus any accrued interest
by the Director of Finance to the
Original Purchaser. The Director of
Finance shall sign the Certificate or
Certificates of Award referred to in
Section 8 evidencing that sale, cause
the Notes to be prepared, and have
the Notes signed and delivered,
together with a true transcript of
proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Notes if requested
by the Original Purchaser, to the
Original Purchaser upon payment of
the purchase price. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Clerk of
Council, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are each authorized and directed to
sign
any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements,
purchase
agreement and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance for the issuance of the Notes.
The Director of Finance is authorized, if it is determined to be in the
best interest of the City, to combine
the issue of Notes with one or more
other note issues of the City into a
consolidated note issue pursuant to
Section 133.30(B) of the Revised
Code.

14
Section 11. Security. The Bonds
and the Notes are special obligations of the City, and the principal
and interest on the Bonds and Notes
are payable solely from Nontax Revenues and, with respect to the
Bonds, such payment is secured by
a pledge of those Nontax Revenues
established by and as provided in
this Ordinance which are on deposit
in the Stadium Bond Fund, as
described below.
There is hereby created by the
City a separate fund named the
“Stadium Bond Fund” (the “Bond
Fund”) into which Nontax Revenues
shall be deposited in accordance
with the following provisions. “Nontax Revenues”, as used herein,
means, all moneys of the City which
are not moneys raised by taxation,
to the extent available for such purposes, including, but not limited to
the following: (a) grants from the
United States of America and the
State of Ohio; (b) payments in lieu
of taxes now or hereafter authorized by State statute; (c) fines and
forfeitures which are deposited in
the City’s General Fund; (d) fees
deposited in the City’s General Fund
from properly imposed licenses and
permits; (e) investment earnings on
the City’s General Fund and which
are credited to the City’s General
Fund; (f) investment earnings of
other funds of the City that are
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (h) rental income
which is deposited in the City’s General Fund; and (i) gifts and donations.
The City hereby covenants and
agrees that on the first day of each
month, the City shall deposit into
the Bond Fund from Nontax Revenues selected by the City (i) commencing the later of the first day
of the month following issuance of
the Bonds or the first day of the
sixth month preceding the first CIB
Interest
Payment
Date
on
the
Bonds, an amount equal to one-sixth
of the interest payment due on the
next following CIB Interest Payment Date, and (ii) commencing the
first day of the twelfth month preceding the first Principal Payment
Date, an amount equal to onetwelfth of the principal payment
due on the next following Principal
Payment Date; in each case, less
any interest earnings accumulated
in the Bond Fund which have not
theretofore been used as a credit
against a prior payment obligation.
Moneys in the Bond Fund shall be
used solely and exclusively to pay
principal and interest on the Bond
when due.
The City hereby covenants and
agrees that so long as the Notes and
the Bonds are outstanding, it will
appropriate and maintain sufficient
Nontax Revenues each year to make
each payment due under this Section and to pay principal and interest on the Notes and Bonds when
due; provided, however, the payments due hereunder and under the
Notes and Bonds are payable solely
from Nontax Revenues, which Nontax Revenues are hereby selected
by the City as moneys that are not
raised by taxation. The Notes and
Bonds do not and shall not represent or constitute a debt or pledge
of the faith or credit or taxing
power of the City, and the owners
of the Bonds have no right to have
taxes levied by the City for the payment of principal and interest on
the Bond.

The City Record
Nothing herein shall be construed
as requiring the City to use or apply
to the payment of principal and
interest on the Notes or the Bonds
any funds or revenues from any
source other than Nontax Revenues.
Nothing herein, however, shall be
deemed to prohibit the City, of its
own volition, from using, to the
extent that it is authorized by law
to do so, any other resources for the
fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this Ordinance or of the Notes or the Bonds.
Section 12. Proceeds of Notes and
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale
of the Notes or Bonds, except any
premium and accrued interest, shall
be paid into the proper fund or
funds and those proceeds are appropriated and shall be used for the
purpose for which the Notes or
Bonds are being issued. Any portion
of those proceeds representing premium and accrued interest shall be
paid into the Sinking Fund.
If Notes are issued, the par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds or any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose.
Section 13. Disclosure; Rating;
Insurance. If, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance after consultation with the Original Purchaser, an
official statement or other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering of the
Notes or Bonds, the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the City and
in that officer’s official capacity, is
authorized to (i) cooperate with the
Original Purchaser in the preparation of, and the making of modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, such a disclosure
document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when
the disclosure document is to be
deemed final or is final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that
disclosure document and any supplements thereto in connection with
the initial offering of the Notes or
Bonds, and (iv) sign certificates,
statements or other documents in
connection with the finality, accuracy and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or Bonds, the City
agrees, as the only obligated person
with respect to the Notes or Bonds
under SEC Rule 15c2-12 (the “Rule”),
to provide or cause to be provided
such financial information and operating data, audited financial statements and notices, in such manner,
as may be required for purposes of
paragraph (b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and thereby to implement that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate with respect to the
Bonds and, if required under the
Rule, with respect to the Notes, in
substantially the form as is now on
file with the Clerk of Council after
approval thereof by the Director of
Law, with such modifications as
may be appropriate under the Rule
in connection with the issuance of
Notes, and with any changes or

282

February 28, 1996
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance and the Director of
Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of that Certificate or amendments to it. The
agreement formed, collectively, by
this paragraph and that Certificate,
shall be the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for purposes of
the Rule, and its performance shall
be subject to the annual appropriation of any funds that may be necessary to perform it.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance after consultation
with the Original Purchaser, the filing of an application for (i) a rating on the Notes or Bonds by one or
more nationally-recognized rating
agencies, (ii) a policy of insurance
or other credit enhancement facility
from a company or companies to
better assure the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes or
Bonds, or (iii) a surety bond or
other credit enhancement facility
from a company or other companies
to satisfy any reserve requirement
for the Notes or Bonds is in the best
interest of and financially advantageous to this City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to
provide to each such agency, company or other credit enhancement
facility provider such information
as may be required for the purpose.
The cost of obtaining each such rating, policy, bond or credit enhancement facility, except to the extent
paid by the Original Purchaser in
accordance with the Bond Purchase
Agreement, shall be paid from the
proceeds of the Notes or Bonds.
Section 14. Tax Covenants. The
City covenants that it will use, and
will restrict the use and investment
of, the proceeds of the Notes and
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) neither the Notes nor the Bonds
will (i) constitute private activity
bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest on the
Notes and Bonds will not be treated
as an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and Bonds to be and remain excluded from gross income for federal
income tax purposes, (b) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Notes and Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment
property,
(iii)
make
timely and adequate payments to
the federal government, (iv) maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds,
all in such manner and to the extent
necessary to assure such exclusion
of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for

February 28, 1996
issuance of the Notes and Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and Bonds as
the City is permitted to or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
Bonds or interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements
for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such compliance,
reducing the rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or
paying,
excess
earnings
as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and Bonds.
Notwithstanding the foregoing or
any other provisions of this Ordinance to the contrary, if the Director of Finance determines prior to
the execution and delivery of the
Bond Purchase Agreement that it is
necessary and appropriate and in
the best interests of the City for the
interest on the Notes or the Bonds
to be included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes, the
City shall not be bound by the
covenants of this Section 14 with
respect to the Notes or Bonds, as the
case may be.
Section 15. Delivery of Ordinance.
The Clerk of Council is directed to
deliver a certified copy of this Ordinance and the Certificate or Certificates of Award and Final Terms
Certificate to the County Auditor.
Section 16. Interpretation. Any
provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the City which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance shall not apply to the
Bonds or Notes authorized herein.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any manner
as would, impair the obligation of
contract of the City with respect to
any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 17. Validity. This Council
determines that all acts and conditions necessary to be done or performed by the City or to have been
met precedent to and in the issuing
of the Notes and Bonds in order to

The City Record
make them legal, valid and binding
special obligations of the City have
been performed and have been met,
or will at the time of delivery of the
Notes and Bonds have been performed and have been met, in regular and due form as required by
law.
Section 18. Open Meeting. This
Council finds and determines that
all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken
in an open meeting of this Council
and that all deliberations of this
Council and of any committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 19. Effective Date. For the
reasons set forth in the preambles
of this Ordinance, which are made
a part hereof, this Ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest date
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 307-96.
By Councilmen Jackson, Johnson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
and execute a lease agreement for
the Charles V. Carr Center with the
Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority for a term of ten years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns real property at 5715 Woodland in the City of Cleveland, which
property is no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (“CMHA”)
has proposed to lease such property
for the purpose of establishing a
CMHA Police Training Academy
and Headquarters Facility; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to enter into a lease agreement with the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (“CMHA”)
for the purpose of establishing a
CMHA Police Training Academy
and Headquarters Facility, of the
following described real property,
which is determined no longer needed for public use during the term
specified in Section 2 below:
Carr Health Center Parcel “A”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublots
Numbers 29 through 32, and the
Easterly 10.00 feet of Sublot Number
33, excepting the Southerly part
appropriated for the widening of
Woodland Avenue, S.E. as shown by
the Recorded Plat in Volume 10,
Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Records

283

15
in Frederick Haltnorth’s Subdivision
of Part of Original 100 Acre Lot
Number 331, as shown by said Plat
in Volume Number 5 of Maps, Page
51 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at said Sublot Numbers
29 through 32 and the Easterly 10.00
feet of Sublot Number 33, together
forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 130.94 feet on the
Northerly side of Woodland Avenue
S.E. and extending back of equal
width, 125.00 feet to an unnamed
12.00 foot alley, and containing
16,368 square feet, (0.3758 acres) of
land; as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Carr Health Center Parcel “B”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots 20
through 26 inclusive, and part of
vacated alley (Volume 228, Page 10
of Cuyahoga County Records), in
Frederick Haltnorth’s Subdivision of
part of Original 100 Acre Lots Numbers 331 and 332 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5, Page 51
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner
of Sublot Number 25, in the Frederick Haltnorth Subdivision as aforesaid, said point being the intersection of the Southerly line of Haltnorth Court S.E. (40.00 feet wide),
and the Westerly line of East 59th
Street
(formerly
First
Avenue),
(60.00 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along the Westerly line of East 59th Street 68.63
feet to the Southeast corner of
Sublot Number 26 in the aforesaid
Subdivision;
Thence
Westerly
along
the
Southerly line of said Sublot and its
Westerly prolongation 150.94 feet to
a point in the Westerly line of an
unnamed alley (10.00 feet wide),
vacated by Ordinance Number 283776, Volume 220, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Records; said line also
being the Easterly line of Sublot
Number 24, in the aforesaid Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line 61.00 feet to a point; said
point being the Westerly turnout of
the vacated alley, as aforesaid;
Thence Southwesterly, about 10.00
feet along said turnout at the Southeasterly corner of Sublot Number 24
said Point also being the Northerly
line of an unnamed Alley (12.00 feet
wide);
Thence continuing Westerly along
said Northerly line 145.00 feet to the
Southwesterly corner of Sublot Number 20;
Thence Northerly, along the Westerly line of said Sublot Number 20,
134.63 feet to the Northwesterly corner thereof; said point also being on
the Southerly line of Haltnorth
Court, as aforesaid;
Thence Easterly, along said line,
300.94 feet to the place of beginning
and
containing
about
30,541.01
square feet of land (0.70 acres), be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized pursuant to Section
1 of this ordinance be ten (10)
years, with three five (5) year
renewal terms.
Section
4.
That
the
property
leased pursuant to this ordinance
shall be leased for the sum of $1.00
per year, and other valuable consideration, including the improvement, maintenance and upkeep of

The City Record

16
the property during the lease term.
Section 4. That the lease agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as
are required to protect the interest
of the City.
Section 5. That the Mayor and the
Directors of Law and Parks, Recreation and Properties, and other
appropriate City officers, are hereby authorized and directed to exe-

cute such other documents and certificates as may be necessary or
appropriate
to
effect
the
lease
authorized pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

February 28, 1996
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Properties
and
Recreation,
City
Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 308-95.
By Councilmen Johnson, McGuirk and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 133.33 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1451-95, passed August 23, 1995, relating to parking fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 133.33 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1451-95, passed August 23, 1995, is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 133.33 Parking Fees.
(a) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall cause to be collected fees and charges at the following parking facilities in accordance with the following schedule:
(1)
Willard Park Garage:
In divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)(1)F., the rate listed is effective upon the reopening of Willard
Park Garage after completion of the improvements.
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.

G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.

(2)

(3)

(4)

First hour or portion thereof
Each additional half hour or portion thereof
Daily maximum rate from 6 A.M. to 11:00 p.m.
Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 A.M.
General monthly rate
Special monthly rate (for City vehicles and
City employees)
(for not more than 100 City employees,
with preference given to employees with the lowest
salary, under the authority of the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties)
Special events (flat rate - pay enter)
Charge for lost or stolen key card
Returned check charge
Late payment charge
Group Monthly Rate — 150 cars or more
Group Monthly Rate — 100 cars to 149 cars
Group Monthly Rate — 75 cars to 99 cars
Early Bird Rate — (time to be determined by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties

Cleveland Convention Center Garage:
A.
First hour or portion thereof
B.
Each additional half hour or portion thereof
C.
Daily maximum rate from 6 A.M. to 11:00 p.m.
D.
Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 A.M.
E.
General monthly rate (the number of key cards may
be limited at the discretion of the Commissioners of
the Convention Center and Parking Facilities)
F.
Special events (flat rate - pay enter)
G.
Charge for lost or stolen key card
H.
Returned check charge
I.
Late payment charge
J.
Early Bird Rate — (time to be determined by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties
Canal Basin Lot:
A.
Daily rate from 6 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. (flat rate - pay
enter)
B.
General monthly rate (weekdays between 6 A.M. and
6 P.M.)
C.
Special events, weekdays between 6:00 P.M. and 6 A.M.,
weekends and holidays (flat rate - pay enter)
D.
Returned check charge
E.
Late payment charge
F.
Charge for lost or stolen key card
North Coast Municipal Parking Lot:
A.
Daily rate (flat rate - pay enter)

$2.08
1.16
8.10
8.10
143.52
74.07

up to 10.00
50.00
15.00
5.00
129.63
134.26
138.89
up to 10.00

2.08
1.16
7.18
7.18

120.37
up to 10.00
50.00
15.00
5.00
up to 10.00

up to 1.85
37.04
up to 10.00
15.00
5.00
50.00

up to 2.08

284

The City Record

February 28, 1996

(5)

17

B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.

City of Cleveland employees
General monthly rate
Special events (flat rate - pay enter)
Charge for lost or stolen key card
Returned check charge
Late payment charge

no charge
up to 41.67
up to 10.00
50.00
15.00
5.00

North
A.
B.
C.
D.

Mall Lot:
First hour or portion thereof
Each additional hour
Maximum rate
Special event rate (flat rate - pay enter)

2.08
2.08
12.04
up to 10.00

(b) Wherever the schedule contained in division (a) of this section specifies a maximum fee, the fee to be
charged shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Parking Facilities with the consent of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties up to the maximum specified.
(c) Monthly rate customer parking privileges at Willard Park Garage, Cleveland Convention Center Garage,
Canal Basin Lot and North Coast Municipal Parking Lot do not include entry to these garages and lots for special events held on weekends, holidays or after 6 P.M. on weekdays.
(d) Fees collected from the Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, North Coast Municipal Parking Lot, and
North Mall Lot shall be credited to the Division of Parking Facilities Enterprise Fund for general operations.
Fees collected from the Convention Center Garage shall be credited to the Convention Center Enterprise Fund
for general operations.
(e) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Commissioner
of the Convention Center for the operations, management and collection of parking fees at the Convention Center Garage.
(f) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall fix and collect such fees and charges as the Commissioner
shall determine at parking facilities not identified in division (a) of this section but under the Commissioner’s
control until such time as the Council and the Board of Control fix fee schedules for such parking facilities.
Section 2. That existing Section 133.33 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1451-95, passed August 23, 1995, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 309-96.
By
Councilmen
Johnson
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to accept gift
of approximately two thousand tee
shirts and caps from the Cleveland
Indian Charities, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, the Cleveland Indian
Charities has indicated a desire to
make a gift of approximately two
thousand tee shirts and caps, valued
at $20,000, to the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to accept, on
behalf of the Division of Recreation,
approximately two thousand caps
and tee shirts, valued at $20,000,
from the Cleveland Indians Charities.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,

Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Properties and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 310-96.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance rescinding the designation of the AfroAmerican Cultural & Historical Society Museum as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2636-75, passed June 2, 1976, this
Council designated and established
the Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum as a Cleveland Landmark; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
rescind the designation of the museum described in Ordinance No. 263675, as a Cleveland Landmark and,
thus, relieve the property owners
from any of the duties or penalties
contained in Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health or safety in that the decision
to rescind the landmark designation
should be effective immediately so
as not to adversely affect the interest of owners within the landmark
area; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That in accordance with
division (b)(6) of Section 161.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the designation of
the Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum as a Cleveland Landmark as described and
defined in Ordinance No. 2636-75,
passed June 2, 1976, is hereby
rescinded.
Section 2. That the rescission of

285

the Afro-American Cultural & Historical Society Museum as a Cleveland Landmark shall be noted on
the Building Zone Maps of the City
of Cleveland on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council and on file in
the office of the City Planning Commission by an appropriate person
designated for such purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Legislation.
Ord. No. 312-96.
By Councilmen Patmon, Jackson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance declaring the property located at 9813-15
North Boulevard blighted premises
pursuant to Section 324.01 through
324.16 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976; and authorizing the Director of Community
Development to acquire the blighted premises and sell said premises
to
Famicos
Foundation,
or
its
designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

18
Section 1. That, pursuant to the
requirements
of
Sections
324.01
through 324.16, inclusive, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976 (“Codified Ordinances”), including obtaining the consent of the
Council member in whose ward the
premises are located, the Director of
Community Development has hereby
found and determined that Permanent Parcel No. 109-06-020, located at
9813-15 North Boulevard, Cleveland,
Ohio,
and
owned
by
Barbara
Wright, Bernard Mitchell and Thelma H. Johnson, are blighted premises, as defined by Section 324.03 of
said Codified Ordinances, because
the blighted premises has been condemned pursuant to the Codified
Ordinances. Furthermore, it is the
opinion of the Director that it is
necessary for the City of Cleveland
to acquire the blighted premises
because the owner of the blighted
premises has not responded to a
lawful order by the City to take
action to eliminate its recurrence
within 30 days after due notice
thereof.
Section 2. That a public hearing
was held in accordance and compliance with the requirements of Sections 324.08 and 324.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 3. That, based upon the
factors set forth in Section 1 hereinabove and compliance with the
public notice requirements set forth
in Section 2 hereinabove, this Council, as required by Sections 324.10
and 324.11, of the Codified Ordinances, hereby finds and determines
that Permanent Parcel No. 109-06020, located at 9813-15 North Boulevard, is a blighted premises as
defined in Section 324.03 of the Codified Ordinances, and that acquisition of the premises is necessary in
order to eliminate the blight and
prevent its recurrence.
Section 4. That based upon the
findings and declarations set forth
in Sections 1 through 3 of this ordinance, the Director of Community
Development is hereby authorized to
negotiate the acquisition of the
blighted premises from the owner
and sell said premises to Famicos
Foundation, or its designee, pursuant to Sections 324.11 and 324.12
of the Codified Ordinances. Said
blighted premises are more fully
described as follows:
9813-15 North Boulevard
PPN: 109-06-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Number 233 in the Adams Realty
Company’s Superior Park Subdivision No. 5 of part of Original 100
Acre Lots Nos. 376 and 377, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 41 of Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being
41.13 feet front on the Northerly
curved line of North Boulevard, N.E.
(40.00 feet wide) and extending
back 108.20 feet on the Westerly
line, 98.54 feet on the Easterly line,
and having a rear line of 40.00 feet
as shown by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways, easements, and restrictions of record, and in particular
those restrictions contained in the
original deed of said parcel from
the Adams Realty Co., to William G.
Mulholland, dated July 1, 1910 and
recorded in Volume 1265, Page 514
of Cuyahoga County Records.
This description was prepared by
David J. Bruckner, Registered Ohio
Professional Surveyor No. 6939 and

The City Record
is intended to replace the former
erroneous and outdated description
as recorded in Volume 95-7080, Page
58 of Cuyahoga Records.
Section 5. That the Mayor is hereby authorized to convey by official
Deed or Deeds title to the blighted
premises at a price to be determined
by the Board of Control.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into and execute
a project agreement on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with Famicos
Foundation, or its designee for the
redevelopment
and/or
rehabilitation, as defined in Chapter 324 of
the Codified Ordinances, of the
blighted
premises.
Said
project
agreement shall be substantially in
the form of that contained in Council File No. 583-91-A.
Section 7. That the Mayor, Director of Law and the Director of Community Development are hereby
authorized to execute such certifications and documents, and to take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate in connection
with the carrying out of the terms
of the project agreement, and the
activities contemplated by Chapter
324 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 313-96.
By
Councilmen
Patton
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of not to exceed three
meter test benches, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the following items: not to exceed
three (3) meter test benches, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 20919.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public

286

February 28, 1996
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 314-96.
By
Councilmen
Patton
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials needed to fabricate ring
and pinion gears, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of labor and materials needed to
fabricate ring and pinion gears in
the estimated sum of $85,000.00, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a
year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order
of the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies pursuant to a requisition against such contract duly certified by the Director of Finance.
(RL 20938)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 315-96.
By
Councilmen
Patton
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to maintain
landscapes at various waterworks
facilities, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized

February 28, 1996
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of labor and materials necessary to
maintain
landscapes
at
various
waterworks facilities in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two
years may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire two years.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order
of the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies pursuant to a requisition against such contract duly certified by the Director of Finance.
(RL 20936)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 316-96.
By Councilmen Paulenske, Johnson,
Rybka
and
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to convey to the
Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library certain easement
rights in property known as Eastman Park and declaring said easement rights no longer needed for
public use.
Whereas, the Board of Trustees of
the Cleveland Public Library has
requested the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Property to convey
certain easement rights in property
known as Eastman Park; and
Whereas, the City entered into a
Lease by Way of Concession, Agreement No. 47153, whereby the City
agreed, subject to approval of Council, to grant to the Board of
Trustees of the Cleveland Public
Library an easement for a period of
fifty (50) years in approximately
fifty (50) square feet of the surface
area of Eastman Park in consideration for the use of an equivalent
sized portion of library property for
Eastman Park; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that an easement interest in the following described property is no longer needed for public
use:
LIBRARY ANNEX
BUILDING ENCROACHMENT
ON EASTMAN GARDEN TRACT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 67, and
bounded and described as follows:
Parcel No. 1
Beginning at the intersection of
the
Northerly
line
of
Superior
Avenue N.E. (132 feet wide) with
the Westerly line of East 6th Street
(99 feet wide);
Thence South 55° 48' 18" West
124.54 feet along the Northerly line
of Superior Avenue and the Southerly line of Sublots Nos. 46 and 44 of
John A. Rockwell and Others Subdivision as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 58
of Cuyahoga County Records, to the
Southwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 44 and of the property conveyed
to Louise G. Bickford by Deed dated
April 29, 1992 in Volume 92-3538,
Page
56
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence North 33° 47' 46" West
5.49 feet along the Westerly line of
said Sublot No. 44 to the principal
place of beginning;
Thence North 34° 11' 42" West
30.85 feet along the Westerly face
of the Annex Building to a corner;
Thence North 55° 48' 18" East 0.21
feet along said building to the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 44;
Thence South 33° 47' 46" East
30.85 feet along said Sublot line to
the principal place of beginning,
containing 3.31 square feet, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Parcel No. 2
Beginning at the Southwesterly
corner of Sublot No. 44 as aforesaid
in Parcel No. 1 above;
Thence North 33° 47' 46" West
162.59 feet along the Westerly line
of Sublot No. 44 to the principal
place of beginning on the Southerly
face of the Northerly 36.33 feet of
said Annex Building;
Thence South 55° 48' 18" West
1.09 feet along said Southerly face
to a corner;
Thence North 34° 11' 42" West
36.33 feet along the Westerly face
of said Annex Building to the Northwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 55° 48' 18" East 1.35
feet along the Northerly line of said
building to the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 44;
Thence South 33° 47' 46" East
36.34 feet along said Sublot line to
the principal place of beginning,
containing 44.32 square feet, more or
less, but subject to all highways
and easements of record.
The above descriptions are based
on a survey of this parcel by Ralph
C. Tyler, P.E., P.S., Register Surveyor No. 4236.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be exclusive and the purpose of the
easement shall be to accommodate
two corner pavilions of the East
Wing Building.
Section 3. That by and at the

287

19
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described exclusive easement
interest to the Board of Trustees of
the Cleveland Public Library at a
price of one dollar ($1.00).
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be fifty (50) years;
that the easement may include reasonable access rights; that the easement shall not be assignable; that
the easement shall terminate and
all rights in the easement shall
revert to the City, in the event the
Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library ceases to own the
East Wing Building and operate
same as a public library; that the
easement shall require the grantee
to provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any grantee improvements
located within the easement, and
pay
any
applicable
taxes
and
assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and/or the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The Deed of
Easement shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are
required to protect the interests of
the parties.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Properties
and
Recreation,
City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 317-96.
By Councilmen Polensek, Johnson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase a
site for a Humphrey Park Facility
expansion project at 15900 Lake
Shore Boulevard and 16013 Damon
Avenue, for the Division of Property
Management,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to purchase the following
described property for the purpose
of expanding the Humphrey Park
Facility:
15900 LAKE SHORE BOULEVARD
(PARTIAL TAKING)
PPN: 113-13-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Euclid Township Tract No.

The City Record

20
16, and being part of lands conveyed
to Montlack Management Co. by
deed dated November 14, 1986 and
recorded in Volume 86-7446 Pg. 37 of
Cuyahoga County Records, further
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner
of Sublot 413 in the Eastwood Subdivision of a part of Original Euclid
Township Tract No. 16 as shown by
the recorded Plat in Volume 31 of
Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said point also being the
Southeast corner of said lands conveyed to Montlack Management Co.;
Thence North 89° 52' 03" West
along the Northerly line of said
Eastwood Subdivision, also being
the Southerly line or said land conveyed to Montlack Management Co.,
53.47 feet to a point being the Northwesterly corner of Sublot 414 in said
Subdivision;
Thence North 00° 00' 00" East
through said land conveyed to Montlack Management Co. 148.70 feet to
a point;
Thence North 70° 05' 53" East
through said land conveyed to the
Montlack Management Co., 57.26
feet to a point on the Easterly line
of said land conveyed to Montlack
Management Co., also being the
Southwesterly corner of lands conveyed to Euclid Beach Plaza Association, by deed dated March 2, 1988
and recorded in Volume 88-0877 Pg.
67 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
the Northwesterly corner of lands
conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
by deed dated August 17, 1967 and
recorded in Volume 10674, Pg. 493 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 00° 07' 35" West
along the Easterly line of said land
conveyed to Montlack Management
Co., also being the Westerly line of
said land conveyed to The City of
Cleveland, 168.32 feet to the principal place of beginning, and containing 8503.00 sq. ft. of land, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Bearings
herein
are
to
an
assumed meridian and are used to
indicate angles only.
16013 DAMON AVENUE
(VACANT LOT)
PPN: 113-13-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 12.5 feet of Sublot No. 416 and
all of Sublot No. 415 in the Eastwood Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township, Tract No. 16, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 31, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 37.5 feet front on the
Northerly side of Damon Avenue,
formerly Nansen Street, and extending back 101.31 feet on the Easterly line, 101.40 feet on the Westerly
line, and having a rear line of 37.5
feet, as appears by said plat be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all
necessary
documents
to
acquire
such property and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition of
such property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for such property shall
not exceed its fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.

Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 180, 20 SF 303, 20
SF 192 and 20 SF 323, Request No.
20556.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 318-96.
By
Councilmen
Polensek
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Safety to enter into a requirement contract without competitive
bidding with Maltese Fire Equipment for the purchase of replacement parts and labor for L.T.I. apparatus in order for such equipment to
remain under warranty, for the Divisions of Fire and Emergency Medical Services, Department of Public
Safety, for a two year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within services are
non-competitive
and
cannot
be
secured from any source other than
Maltese Fire Equipment. Therefore,
the Director of Public Safety be and
he hereby is authorized and directed to make a written requirement
contract for the period of two years
with said Maltese Fire Equipment
for replacement parts and labor for
L.T.I. apparatus being used by the
Division of Fire and Emergency
Medical Services in order for such
equipment to remain under warranty, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Divisions
of Fire and Emergency Medical Services, Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21145)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

288

February 28, 1996
Ord. No. 319-96.
By
Councilmen
Polensek
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Safety to enter into a requirement contract without competitive
bidding with Simon Duplex for the
purchase of replacement parts and
labor for duplex chassis in order for
such equipment to remain under
warranty, for the Divisions of Fire
and Emergency Medical Services,
Department of Public Safety, for a
two year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within services are
non-competitive
and
cannot
be
secured from any source other than
Simon Duplex. Therefore, the Director of Public Safety be and he hereby is authorized and directed to
make a written requirement contract for the period of two years
with said Simon Duplex for replacement parts and labor for duplex
chassis being used by the Division
of Fire and Emergency Medical Services in order for such equipment to
remain under warranty, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Divisions of Fire and
Emergency
Medical
Services,
Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21146)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 320-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into contracts with
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Ohio, Medical Life Insurance Company, HMO
Health Ohio, Kaiser Permanente,
Aetna Health Plans of Northern
Ohio and Personal Physician Care,
Inc. to provide medical and life
insurance coverage for City employees; and to enter into contract with
a joint venture to provide dental
insurance for City employees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleve-

February 28, 1996
land, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
contract
with
Blue
Cross
Blue
Shield of Ohio to provide Super Blue
group medical insurance coverage
for City of Cleveland employees for
a one year term commencing April
1, 1996, on the basis of its proposal
dated January 26, 1996.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
contract
with
Blue
Cross
Blue
Shield of Ohio to provide Super Blue
Select point of service style health
insurance coverage for City of
Cleveland employees for a one year
term commencing April 1, 1996, on
the basis of its proposal dated January 26, 1996.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
contract with Medical Life Insurance Company to provide group life
insurance coverage for City of
Cleveland employees for a one year
term commencing April 1, 1996, and
to provide Section 125 Premium Pass
Through services, on the basis of its
proposal dated January 4, 1996.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
contract with HMO Health Ohio to
provide health maintenance organization-style health insurance coverage for City of Cleveland employees
for a one year term commencing
April 1, 1996, on the basis of its proposal dated January 26, 1996.
Section 5. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
Contract with Kaiser Permanente to
provide health maintenance organization-style health insurance coverage for City of Cleveland employees
for a one year term commencing
April 1, 1996, on the basis of its proposal dated January 29, 1996.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
contract with Aetna Health Plans of
Northern Ohio to provide health
maintenance
organization-style
health insurance coverage for City
of Cleveland employees for a one
year term commencing April 1, 1996,
on the basis of its proposal dated
January 15, 1996.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a
contract with Personal Physician
Care, Inc., to provide health maintenance
organization-style
health
insurance coverage for City of
Cleveland employees for a one year
term commencing April 1, 1996, on
the basis of its proposal dated June
9, 1995.
Section 8. That notwithstanding
any Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to employ by contract an insurance agency, on a
joint venture basis, which joint ven-

The City Record
ture shall include at least one
minority insurance agency, to provide group dental insurance coverage for City of Cleveland employees
for a one year term commencing
April 1, 1996. The selection of said
insurance agency for such services
shall be made by the Director of
Finance after a full and complete
canvass.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 321-96.
By Councilmen Smith, Jackson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located at 2407 W. 40
Street and 2413 W. 40 Street.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department
of Community Development under
the terms of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code and Section
183.021 of Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 007-04-037
and
007-04-038,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to
Johnny L. and Joann Belt.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-04-037
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
16 in J.P. Hill’s Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
53, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 30
feet front on the Easterly side of
West 40th Street, (formerly Freas
Avenue), and extending back of
equal width 100 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 007-04-038
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.

289

21
17 in J. P. Hill’s Allotment of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 53, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to George and
Margaret Webber, by deed dated
May 15, 1943, and recorded in Volume 5610, Page 668 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of land so
conveyed to George and Margaret
Webber to its intersection with the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, by
deeds dated February 17, 1969 and
March 27, 1969 and recorded in Volume 12508, Pages 475 and 477 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Northwesterly along the Northeasterly line of land so conveyed to the
City of Cleveland, to its intersection
with the Northerly line of land conveyed to George and Margaret Webber, as aforesaid; thence Easterly
along said Northerly line to the
Northeasterly corner of land so conveyed to George and Margaret Webber; thence Southerly along said
Easterly line to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 322-96.
By Councilman Paulenske (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Hazard Court, N.E.

22
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating all that portion of Hazard Court,
N.E., as hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property, located in
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
and known as being all that portion
of HAZARD COURT, N.E. (width
varies) located between East 21st
Street (66.00 feet wide), and East
22nd Street (60.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 324-96.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution urging
all major industries and businesses
based in Cleveland and the vicinity
to adopt a school within the Cleveland Public School system to provide human and financial resources
to that school.
Whereas, the schools in the Cleveland Public School system are in
dire need of assistance from both
the private and public sector; and
Whereas, the children within the
Cleveland Public School system are
in need of tutoring, training programs, role models and textbooks;
and
Whereas, the schools themselves
are in dire need of repair and maintenance because of deteriorating
buildings; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health or safety in that the industries and businesses in the community have the resources to provide
tutoring and training programs, role
models and speakers, as well as
funds
for
computers,
textbooks,
scholarships and building repair;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland hereby urges all
major industries and businesses
based in Cleveland and the vicinity
to adopt a school within the Cleveland Public School system to provide human and financial resources
to that school.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 311-96.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Jackson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase the
former Memphis School located at
4103
Memphis
Avenue
for
the
Department of Community Development; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
convey said property to Charter One
Bank, or its designee.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of property, which is located at 4103 Memphis Avenue for redevelopment of said property; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of said property to Charter One
Bank, or its designee, for the public purpose of redevelopment of said
property; and
Whereas, Charter One Bank, or its
designee, has submitted a proposal
which the Director of Community
Development has determined to be a
satisfactory means of achieving
redevelopment of said property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and
Supplies
is
hereby
authorized to purchase the following described property for the purpose of developing an operations
center for Charter One Bank:
4103 Memphis Avenue
PPN: 014-13-014
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots
Numbers 203, 204, 205, 186, 187 and
188 in The Brooklyn Realty Company’s Subdivision No. 2 of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
58 as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 40 of
Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublots Numbers 203,
204, and 205 together forming a parcel of land having a frontage or 120
feet on the Southerly side of Memphis Avenue, S.W., and extending
back 121 86/100 feet on the Easterly line, 121 92/100 feet on the Westerly line and having a rear line of
120 feet. Said Sublots Numbers 186,
187 and 188 together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 120
feet on the Northerly side of Henritze Avenue, S.W., and extending
back between parallel lines 122 feet
according to said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublots 189, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194,
195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200, 201 and
202 in the Brooklyn Realty Company’s Subdivision No. 2 of a part of

290

February 28, 1996
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
58 as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 40, Page
11 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Said Sublots together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of
280.28 feet on the Southerly line of
Memphis Avenue, S.W., 243.72 feet
on the Westerly line of West 41st
Street and 280.28 feet on the Northerly line of Henritze Avenue S.W., and
measuring 243.86 feet on its Westerly line, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire and to convey
such property and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition of
such property.
Section 3. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 13 SF 844, Request No.
21674.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Title V of the Community
Development Code in the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Director of Community Development may enter into and execute a
project agreement for and on behalf
of the City of Cleveland with Charter One Bank, or its designee, for
the acquisition, disposition and private redevelopment for the property
which is described in Section 1.
Section 5. That this Council finds
that the conveyance to Charter One
Bank, or its designee, constitutes a
public use of said property for the
purposes of redevelopment.
Section 6. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
described property in Section 1 to
Charter One Bank, or its designee,
at a price not less than fair market
value of the property taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary interests and similar encumbrances placed by the City of Cleveland in the deed or deeds of conveyance.
Section 7. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain such necessary provisions (including such restrictive
reversionary interests as may be
specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law) which shall protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against
the erection of any advertising
signs or billboards except permitted
identification signs.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

February 28, 1996
Ord. No. 325-96.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of
a permit for a Walk on March 2,
1996,
sponsored
by
the
People
Before Profits March and Rally
Committee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a Walk, sponsored by
the People Before Profits March and
Rally Committee, on March 2, 1996,
beginning at the Sheraton City Centre (E. 6th Street and St. Clair), east
on St. Clair to E. 12th Street, north
on E. 12th Street to Hamilton, finishing at the Bridgestone-Firestone
Service Center, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 326-96.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of
a permit for the 1996 Walk for
Hunger on May 11, 1996, sponsored
by the Hunger Network of Greater
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 1996 Walk for
Hunger, sponsored by the Hunger
Network of Greater Cleveland, on
May 11, 1996, beginning at Burke
Lakefront Airport, exit the Apcoa
Parking Lot and proceed west on
North Marginal Road using the
pedestrian bridge, progress west on
North Marginal to E. 9th Street, go
north on E. 9th Street to Erieside
Avenue, west on Erieside Avenue
and around the Cleveland Municipal
Stadium to W. 3rd Street, south on
W. 3rd Street to St. Clair, west on
St. Clair to W. 9th Street, southeast

The City Record
onto Huron Road, stay on Huron
Road until E. 13th Street, west on
Euclid Avenue, north at Public
Square on Mall Drive, continue on
Mall Drive until Lakeside Avenue,
east on Lakeside Avenue until E.
9th Street, north on E. 9th Street
and finish at the Bicentennial Park
at North Coast Harbor, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may
be closed as determined by the
Chief of Police or safety forces as
may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide
that the City of Cleveland shall be
fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 327-96.
By Councilmen Smith and Paulenske.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of
a permit for the M.S. Walk for Multiple Sclerosis on April 14, 1996,
sponsored by the Northeast Ohio
Chapter of the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the M.S. Walk for
Multiple Sclerosis, sponsored by the
Northeast
Ohio
Chapter
of
the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society,
on April 14, 1996, beginning at the
Nautica
Entertainment
Complex/
Powerhouse entrance in the Flats,
exit the complex via Washington
Ave., continue west on Washington
(south side) to W. 25th St., turn left
onto W. 25th St., continue south on
W. 25th St. (east side) crossing
Superior Viaduct, Franklin Ave.,
Bridge Ave., Gould Ct. and Market
St.; at the corner of W. 25th St. and
Lorain Ave., turn left onto Lorain
Ave. and proceed east over the
Lorain-Carnegie Bridge to Ontario
St.; at the traffic lights, cross from
the west to the east side of Ontario,
turn left and continue north on
Ontario (east side) to Huron Rd.,
turn right onto Huron and continue
east on Huron (south side) to E. 6th
St., turn right onto E. 6th St. and
continue south on E. 6th St. (west
side) to Eagle Ave. and turn left,
continue east on Eagle (south side)
to E. 9th St., at the corner of E. 9th
St. and Eagle, turn left, cross from
the south to the north side of Eagle

291

23
and proceed north on E. 9th St.
(west side) to Bolivar Rd., at traffic light, turn right and cross from
west to east side of E. 9th St., turn
right and continue south on E. 9th
St. (east side) to Sumner Ct. and
turn left onto Sumner, continue east
on Sumner (north side) to E. 14th
St. and turn left onto E. 14th St.,
continue north on E. 14th St. (west
side) to Prospect Ave., turn right at
Prospect and at traffic light, cross
from west to east side of E. 14th St.,
turn left and at traffic light, cross
from south to north side of Prospect,
turn right and continue east on
Prospect (north side) to E. 22nd St.,
turn left on E. 22nd St. and continue north on E. 22nd St. (west side)
to Euclid Ave. and turn right; at
traffic light, cross from west to east
side of E. 22nd St. and turn left, at
traffic light, cross from south to
north side of Euclid Ave. and turn
left, at traffic light, cross from east
to west side of E. 22nd St., continue west on Euclid Ave. (north side)
crossing E. 18th St., E. 17th St., E.
14th St., E. 13th St., E. 12th St., E.
9th St. and E. 6th St. to Public
Square,
turn
right
onto
Public
Square
(BP
Building),
continue
north on Public Square (east side)
to Superior Ave., at traffic light,
cross from south to north side of
Superior and turn left; at traffic
light, cross from Public Square from
east to west side, continue west on
Superior (north side) to W. 6th St.
and turn right onto W. 6th St., continue north on W. 6th St. (east side)
to W. St. Clair Ave. and turn right,
continue east on W. St. Clair Ave.
(south side) crossing Ontario, E. 6th
St., E. 9th St., E. 12th St. and E. 13th
St. to E. 17th St., at corner of St.
Clair and E. 17th St., turn left, cross
at traffic light from south to north
side of St. Clair Ave., continue north
on E. 17th St. (west side) to Lakeside Ave. and turn right, cross from
west to east side of E. 17th St. and
turn left, cross from south to north
side of Lakeside Ave., turn left and
continue west on Lakeside Ave.
(north side) to E. 9th St., turn right
onto E. 9th St., continue north on E.
9th St. (east side), cross Erieside
Ave. and continue north on E. 9th
St. to North Coast Parking Lot, follow circular sidewalk (thereby turning around) and proceed south on
E. 9th St. (west side) to Erieside
Ave., cross from north to south side
of Erieside Ave., turn right and continue west on Erieside (south side)
to W. 3rd St., continue south on W.
3rd St. (east side) to Lakeside Ave.,
at traffic light, cross from north to
south side of Lakeside Ave. and
turn right onto W. Lakeside Ave., at
traffic light, cross from east to west
side of W. 3rd St., continue west on
W. Lakeside Ave. (south side) to W.
9th St. and turn right, cross from
south to north side of W. Lakeside
Ave., continue north on W. 9th St.
(east side) to Front St., turn left
onto Front St. and cross from east
to west side of W. 9th St., continue
west on Front St. (south side) to Old
River Rd. and turn left, continue
south on Old River Rd. (east side)
to Center St., at corner of Old River
Rd. and Center, cross from the north
to south side of Center, turn right
and continue west on Center St.
(south side) to Center St. Bridge,
continue
north
over
Center
St.
Bridge (west side) to Riverbed, at
intersection
of
Center
St.
and
Riverbed Rd., turn right; cross from
west to east side of Center St. and
continue east on Riverbed (south

24
side) to Elm St. and turn left onto
Elm, cross from south to north side
of Riverbed and continue north on
Elm (east side) to Washington, turn
right onto Washington and proceed
into
the
Nautica
Entertainment
Complex, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 323-96.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution urging
the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis
and Pogue to make a substantial
contribution to the Cleveland public
school system out of payments
received from Art Modell and Cleveland Stadium Corporation in defense
of the Cleveland Browns’ litigation.
Whereas, the law firm of Jones,
Day, Reavis and Pogue (“Jones,
Day”) has received a substantial
amount of fees from the defense of
Art Modell in his efforts to relocate
his football team to Baltimore; and
Whereas, the strenuous defense of
Art Modell has tarnished the reputation of Jones, Day within the
Cleveland community; and
Whereas, it is most fitting and
appropriate that Jones, Day seek to
restore its reputation in our community by making a substantial
contribution to the Cleveland public
school system out of the monies
received from Art Modell and the
Cleveland Stadium Corporation; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health or safety in that it is time to
try to heal some of the wounds
caused by Art Modell’s reprehensible decision; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the law firm of Jones, Day to make
a substantial contribution to the
Cleveland public school system out
of payments received from Art Modell and Cleveland Stadium Corporation in defense of the Cleveland
Browns’ litigation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to the managing
partners at Jones, Day.
Section 3. That this resolution is

The City Record
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 328-96.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 8502
Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
2455445, 8502 Quincy Ave., Inc., dba
Quincy Eagle Market, 8502 Quincy
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to
Permit No. 7680789, Salem Quincy
Market, Inc., dba Quincy Savmor,
8502
Quincy
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44106; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said permit must be received by the Director of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
2455445, 8502 Quincy Ave., Inc., dba
Quincy Eagle Market, 8502 Quincy
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to
Permit No. 7680789, Salem Quincy
Market, Inc., dba Quincy Savmor,
8502
Quincy
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44106, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hear-

292

February 28, 1996
ing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 329-96.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 5404 Storer
Avenue, first floor and basement
front.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 00240100005,
Maha Hammad Abed, dba Economy
Market, 5404 Storer Avenue, first
floor and basement front, Cleveland,
Ohio 44102, to Permit No. 3554772,
Hammad Hammad, dba Economy,
5404 Storer Avenue, first floor and
basement
front,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said per-

February 28, 1996
mit must be received by the Director of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 00240100005,
Maha Hammad Abed, dba Economy
Market, 5404 Storer Avenue, first
floor and basement front, Cleveland,
Ohio 44102, to Permit No. 3554772,
Hammad Hammad, dba Economy,
5404 Storer Avenue, first floor and
basement
front,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 330-96.
By Councilman Miller.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to 4735 Rocky River Drive,
and repealing Res. No. 2251-95,
objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 4735 Rocky
River Drive by Res. No. 2251-95,
adopted December 11, 1995; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 4735 Rocky
River Drive be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 2251-95,
containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer of ownership
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter

The City Record
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 331-96.
By Councilmen Polensek, Britt,
Coats,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Lewis,
McGuirk, Miller, O’Malley, Patmon,
Patton,
Paulenske,
Robinson,
Rokakis, Rybka, Smith, Westbrook,
White, Willis, Zone.
An emergency resolution opposing
the staff report of the Joint Legislative Committee on Public Retirement Plans which recommends that
the minimum retirement age for
STRS, PERS and SERS employees
be increased.
Whereas, on January 11, 1996, the
staff of the Joint Legislative Committee on Public Retirement Plans
issued recommended changes to the
STRS, PERS and SERS retirement
plans; and
Whereas, the staff report recommended that Ohio’s public retirement systems use the Social Security standards for full retirement; and
Whereas, the staff recommendations mean that the minimum retirement age for public employees in
order to receive full benefits will
increase to 67 years of age or 33
years of service; and
Whereas, the staff report states
that there will be no grandfathering
for current employees; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health, or safety in that it is unconscionable for an Ohio legislative
staff to recommend tampering with
the existing retirement program for
thousands of public employees; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes the recommendations of the staff
of the Joint Legislative Committee
on
Public
Retirement
Plans
to
extend the minimum retirement age
for STRS, PERS and SERS employees.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the members of the Joint Legislative Committee on Public Retirement Plans.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 333-96.
By Councilman Rokakis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to
3829 Denison Avenue, first floor and
basement, and repealing Res. No.
2073-95, objecting to said transfer of
ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor
Permit
to
3829
Denison

293

25
Avenue, first floor and basement, by
Res. No. 2073-95, adopted November
13, 1995; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor
Permit
to
3829
Denison
Avenue, first floor and basement, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 2073-95, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 334-96.
By Councilman Smith.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 2615 Lorain Avenue, and
repealing Res. No. 1500-95, objecting
to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to 2615 Lorain
Avenue by Res. No. 1500-95, adopted
August 23, 1995; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor
Permit
to
2615
Lorain
Avenue be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 1500-95, containing said objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record

26
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1242-95.
By Councilmen Pianka, Miller,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
a
Development
Agreement
between the City of Cleveland and
Chelm Management Company providing for the sale by the City of
Cleveland to Chelm Management
Company or its designees of real
property
owned
or
hereafter
acquired by the City of Cleveland
and located north of Cleveland Hopkins Airport in the City of Cleveland on terms and conditions set
forth
therein;
authorizing
and
directing the execution and delivery
of the deeds, certifications, and
other
instruments
necessary
or
appropriate to give effect to such
Development Agreement; and declaring an emergency.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Port Control,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
City Planning, Community and Economic Development, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. Strike the title, all the whereas
clauses and Sections 1 and 2 in their
entirety, and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
“An emergency ordinance authorizing a professional services contract with Chelm Properties, Inc. to
create a development plan for real
property
owned
or
hereafter
acquired by the City of Cleveland
and located north of Cleveland
Hopkins Airport: setting forth the
scope of services of the professional services agreement; authorizing
the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Development
Agreement,
Purchase
Agreement
and Escrow Agreement; and the
form of those agreements.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to obtain the services of
Chelm Properties, Inc. to create a
development plan for real property
owned or hereafter acquired by the
City of Cleveland and located north
of Cleveland Hopkins Airport; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to enter into
an agreement with Chelm Properties, Inc. to create a development
plan relating to real property owned
or hereafter acquired by the City of
Cleveland and located north of
Cleveland Hopkins Airport, which
property is more fully described in
the exhibits to the development
agreement on file with the Clerk of
Council in File No. 1242-95-A.
Section 2. That the development
plan shall include, among other
things: site plans and renderings of
proposed structures; design standards; environmental assessments
and reviews required by the Federal Aviation Administration; marketing studies and financing plans for
each
development
phase;
traffic
studies containing a plan for minimizing traffic congestion in and
near the real property that is the
subject of the development agree-

ment; title reviews and surveys;
general objectives for development,
such as, economic land use, utility
and
community
objectives;
use
restrictions, building requirements,
zoning and enforcement procedures
therefor; a communications system,
if necessary; preliminary scope of
the access road (Grayton Road);
detailed plans for infrastructure and
other
public
improvements;
a
description of the quality and type
of facilities to be included in the
development; and such other feasibility studies as may be necessary.
Section 3. That said development
plan shall be completed and delivered to the Director of Economic
Development within eight months of
the date of execution of the contract
to create the development plan at a
cost
not
exceeding
$250,000.00.
payable from Fund No. 10 SF 501.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized, upon
approval of the development plan by
the City Planning Commission, to
submit the development plan, the
development agreement, the purchase agreement, escrow agreement,
and any other documents relating to
the development to the Federal Aviation Administration for approval of
land release.
Section 5. That, upon approval of
land release by the Federal Aviation Administration, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into the development
agreement, the purchase agreement,
and escrow agreement, in substantially the form of the development
agreement,
purchase
agreement,
and escrow agreement on file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 124295-A, with such changes as may be
requested by the Federal Aviation
Administration, for the first phase
of development with Cleveland Business Park, Ltd.
Section 6. That, upon approval of
land release by the Federal Aviation Administration, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a development
agreement,
purchase
agreement,
and escrow agreement, in substantially the form of the development
agreement, purchase and escrow
agreement on file with the Clerk of
Council in File No. 1242-95-A, with
such changes as maybe requested
by the Federal Aviation Administration for subsequent phases of
development with Cleveland Business Park, Ltd.”
2. Renumber existing Section 3 as
new “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 155-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into a license
agreement without competitive bidding with International Business
Machines Corporation for computer
software, for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a period of one
year, with a one year option to
renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 156-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance autho-

294

February 28, 1996
rizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into a license
agreement without competitive bidding with SAS Institute, Inc. for certain software products, for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year, with a one year
option to renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 157-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into a maintenance
agreement without competitive bidding with Decision One Corporation
for maintenance for various Braegen computer devices, for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year, with a one year
option to renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 158-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of maintenance for a mainframe computer system and associated subsystems, for the Division
of Information Systems Services,
Department of Finance, for a period
of one year with a one year option
to renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 207-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Cleveland Foundation for the 1996
Attorney Training Program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 2186-95.
By Councilmen Paulenske, Coats,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1424-95,
passed September 25, 1995, relating
to the appropriation of property for
public
right-of-way
purposes
at
West 9th Street near Front Avenue
for the West 9th Street Bridge.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on Public Service, City Planning, Finance; Recommended by
Committee on Public Parks.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 202-96.
By
Councilmen
Johnson
and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into an agreement for the purchase, lease, or lease with option to
purchase of heavy duty equipment
and accessories, for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,

February 28, 1996
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committees on
Public Parks, Finance; Recommended by Committee on Public Parks.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 8:45 p.m.
to meet on Monday, March 4, 1996,
at 7:00 p.m.

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be
on their final passage at the next
meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1242-95.
By Councilmen Pianka, Miller,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a professional services contract with Chelm Properties, Inc. to
create a development plan for real
property
owned
or
hereafter
acquired by the City of Cleveland
and located north of Cleveland Hopkins Airport: setting forth the scope
of services of the professional services agreement; authorizing the
Director of Economic Development
to enter into a Development Agreement,
Purchase
Agreement
and
Escrow Agreement; and the form of
those agreements.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to obtain the services of
Chelm Properties, Inc. to create a
development plan for real property
owned or hereafter acquired by the
City of Cleveland and located north
of Cleveland Hopkins Airport; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to enter into
an agreement with Chelm Properties, Inc. to create a development
plan relating to real property owned
or hereafter acquired by the City of
Cleveland and located north of
Cleveland Hopkins Airport, which
property is more fully described in
the exhibits to the development
agreement on file with the Clerk of
Council in File No. 1242-95-A.
Section 2. That the development
plan shall include, among other
things: site plans and renderings of
proposed structures; design standards; environmental assessments
and reviews required by the Federal Aviation Administration; marketing studies and financing plans for
each
development
phase;
traffic
studies containing a plan for minimizing traffic congestion in and
near the real property that is the

The City Record
subject of the development agreement; title reviews and surveys;
general objectives for development,
such as, economic land use, utility
and
community
objectives;
use
restrictions, building requirements,
zoning and enforcement procedures
therefor; a communications system,
if necessary; preliminary scope of
the access road (Grayton Road);
detailed plans for infrastructure and
other
public
improvements;
a
description of the quality and type
of facilities to be included in the
development; and such other feasibility studies as may be necessary.
Section 3. That said development
plan shall be completed and delivered to the Director of Economic
Development within eight months of
the date of execution of the contract
to create the development plan at a
cost
not
exceeding
$250,000.00.
payable from Fund No. 10 SF 501.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized, upon
approval of the development plan by
the City Planning Commission, to
submit the development plan, the
development agreement, the purchase agreement, escrow agreement,
and any other documents relating to
the development to the Federal Aviation Administration for approval of
land release.
Section 5. That, upon approval of
land release by the Federal Aviation Administration, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into the development
agreement, the purchase agreement,
and escrow agreement, in substantially the form of the development
agreement,
purchase
agreement,
and escrow agreement on file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 124295-A, with such changes as may be
requested by the Federal Aviation
Administration, for the first phase
of development with Cleveland Business Park, Ltd.
Section 6. That, upon approval of
land release by the Federal Aviation Administration, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a development
agreement,
purchase
agreement,
and escrow agreement, in substantially the form of the development
agreement, purchase and escrow
agreement on file with the Clerk of
Council in File No. 1242-95-A, with
such changes as maybe requested
by the Federal Aviation Administration for subsequent phases of
development with Cleveland Business Park, Ltd.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 155-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into a license
agreement without competitive bidding with International Business
Machines Corporation for computer
software, for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a period of one
year, with a one year option to
renew.

295

27
Ord. No. 156-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into a license
agreement without competitive bidding with SAS Institute, Inc. for certain software products, for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year, with a one year
option to renew.
Ord. No. 157-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance to enter into a maintenance
agreement without competitive bidding with Decision One Corporation
for maintenance for various Braegen computer devices, for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year, with a one year
option to renew.
Ord. No. 158-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of maintenance for a mainframe computer system and associated subsystems, for the Division
of Information Systems Services,
Department of Finance, for a period
of one year with a one year option
to renew.
Ord. No. 207-96.
By
Councilman
Rokakis
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Cleveland Foundation for the 1996
Attorney Training Program.

BOARD OF CONTROL
February 21, 1996
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 21,
1996, at 10:30 a.m., with Mayor
White presiding.
Present:
Mayor
White,
Acting
Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors
Konicek,
Cunningham,
Guzman,
Staib,
Acting
Director
Holland,
Directors Spellman, Hamilton, Acting
Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director Axelrod.
Absent: None.
Others: William Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies,
Linda Willis, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 103-96.
By Director Hyer.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that pursuant to Section 101 of the Charter,
Section 181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and
Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by
the Board of Control on November
26, 1952, the report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for
the sale of scrap, personal property,
and by-products during the month of
November, 1995 in the amount of
$5,070.42, hereto attached and made
a part hereof, is hereby received,
approved and ordered filed.

The City Record

28
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib,
Acting Director Holland, Directors
Spellman, Hamilton, Acting Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director
Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 104-96.
By Director Konicek.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all
bids received on January 17, 1996
for waste disposal site for construction debris, (Item No. 2 Only),
for the Divisions of Water Pollution
Control
and
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1142-95, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 23, 1995, be and the same
are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib,
Acting Director Holland, Directors
Spellman, Hamilton, Acting Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director
Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 105-96.
By Director Cunningham.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
571.85 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of
Port Control is authorized to fix
fees for parking aircraft at Cityowned and operated ramp areas at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
and Burke Lakefront Airports in
such amounts as said director deems
appropriate, now; therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, pursuant to the authority of
Section 571.85 C.O., the following
parking fees fixed by the Director
of Port Control for aircraft at nonleased, City-owned and operated
ramp areas, exclusive of the ramp
adjacent to the terminal buildings
at Cleveland Hopkins International
and Burke Lakefront Airports are
hereby approved and set for the one
(1) year period commencing upon
the effective date of this resolution:
Aircraft Design Group Charges
(for each 24 hour
period or part thereof)
Group I.—Wingspan up to but not
including 49 feet
$25.00
Group II.—Wingspan from 49 feet
up to but not including 79 feet:
35.00
Group III.—Wingspan from 79
feet up to but not including 118 feet:
35.00 - prop
50.00 - jet
Group IV.—Wingspan from 118
feet up to but not including 171 feet:
75.00
Groups V. & VI.—Wingspan from
171 feet or greater
100.00
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib,
Acting Director Holland, Directors
Spellman, Hamilton, Acting Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director
Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent:None.

Resolution No. 106-96.
By Director Cunningham.
Whereas, Board Control Resolution No. 67-96, adopted February 5,
1996, approved
a requirement contract with Dover Elevator Company
for labor and materials to maintain
and repair elevators and escalators
for six hundred sixty-seven thousand five hundred eighty and no/100
($ 667,580.00); and
Whereas,
Resolution
No.
67-96
incorrectly
stated
the
contract
amount; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control that Resolution No. 67-96 is
hereby amended by changing “six
hundred sixty-seven thousand five
hundred eighty and no/100” to “six
hundred
seventy-seven
thousand
five hundred eighty and no/100
($677,580.00).
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 67-96
not expressly amended hereby shall
remain unchanged and in full force
and effect.
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib,
Acting Director Holland, Directors
Spellman, Hamilton, Acting Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director
Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 107-96.
By Director Denihan.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Pyramid Electric,
Inc., for the public improvement of
Police Headquarters, 15 K.V. Feeder Replacement for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
received on January 26, 1996, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1578-90, passed February 24,
1992, for a gross price, for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Twenty Thousand, Five
Hundred and no/100 ($20,500.00)
Dollars, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to enter into
contract for said improvement with
said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the following subcontractor for the Police Headquarters, 15 K.V. Feeder Replacement be
and the same hereby is approved:
Noble Electric Co.
Labor associated with feeder
replacement (MBE 30%)
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib,
Acting Director Holland, Directors
Spellman, Hamilton, Acting Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director
Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 108-96.
By Director Denihan.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Physio-Control Corporation for
the following: Lifepak 10 Monitor/Defibrillators (All Items) for
the Division of Emergency Medical
Services, Department of Public Safety, received on the 28th day of
December, 1995, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 477-95,
passed May 15, 1995, which on the
basis of order quantities would
amount
to
$19,495.00
is
hereby

296

February 28, 1996
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into contract for such items.
Yeas: Mayor White, Acting Directors Terry, Carmody, Directors Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib,
Acting Director Holland, Directors
Spellman, Hamilton, Acting Directors
Patterson,
Balraj,
Director
Axelrod.
Nays: None.
Absent:None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President
___________
Civil Service will be accepting
applications from March 11 through
March 15 for the following examinations:
Accountant IV (Promotional)
Accountant
Supervisor
(Promotional)
Air Pollution Technician I (Open)
Budget Analyst (Open)
Budget and Management Analyst
(Open)
Financial Analyst (Open)
Information
Control
Analyst
(Open)
Junior
Personnel
Assistant
(Open)
Programmer (Open)
Water Pipe Repairman (Open)

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1996
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 96-18: 1519 Lakeview
Rd., N.E.
Lemaud Williams, to convert to a
nightclub and lounge a 110'x 30'
portion of the first floor of the two
and one story 180'x 400' former

The City Record

February 28, 1996
bakery building and to convert to a
party center the one story 60'x 100'
building, both on the approximate
200'x 400' “T” shaped through parcel, situated partially in the City of
East Cleveland, located in a Two
Family District and Semi-Industry
District at 1519 Lakeview Rd.; said
uses for a lounge and for a party
center being contrary to the residence limitations of Section 337.03
but subject to the substitution limitations of Section 359.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 96-20: 1415-23 W. 28 St.
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority,
owner,
c/o
Kenneth
Maxwell, to install accessory offstreet parking lot for 21 cars on the
137'x 42' irregular shaped corner
lot located in a Semi-Industry District on the northeast corner of W.
28 St. and Detroit Ave.; said proposed parking lot not to conform to
the landscaping provisions of Sections 352.08, 352.09 and 352.10 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 96-21: 3722 Woburn
Ave., S.W.
Thomas E. Walsh dba Dina’s
Pizza & Pub, owner, to install an
off-street parking lot for 7 cars,
accessory to the restaurant at 4376
Pearl Rd., on the front of the 40'x
135' lot located in a Two Family
District, with a dwelling house
known as 3722 Woburn Ave. to
remain on the rear; said parking lot
usage being contrary to the residential use limitations of Section
337.03 and said proposed parking lot
and fencing installed therewith to
be located within the front setback
area along Woburn Ave. contrary to
Sections 357.06 and 357.14 and said
proposed parking lot not to conform
to the landscaping provisions of Sections 352.08, 352.09 and 352.11 and
said installation would be contrary
to the independent area and independent yard requirements of Sections 355.03 and 357.02 of the Codified Ordinances.
ANTHONY COSTANZO,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996
At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, on, Tuesday, February 20, 1996, the following appeals
were heard by the Board, and, on,
Monday, February 26, 1996 were
decided by the Board.
The
following
Granted:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 96-4: 3770 W. 133rd
Street
Peter Z. Pinter, owner, to erect
12'x 9' one story addition to the
front of the two story frame one
family dwelling.
Calendar No. 96-6: 5802 Madison
Ave., N.W.
Leonard Strimpel, owner, to erect
152' of 4' high chain link fence to
partially
enclose
the
irregular
shaped corner lot.
The
following
Refused:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 95-234: 3274 E. 143rd St.
Claudine C. Husband, owner, to

29

add a 24'6"x 12' two story frame
addition for five additional occupants for a total of 16 occupants.
Calendar No. 96-3: 6115 Broadway,
S.E.
Michael Ferek, owner, and Broadway Video, tenant to use as adult
bookstore and adult mini-motion picture theater.
Calendar No. 96-7: 15100 Lorain
Avenue
Robert Labuda, owner, to convert
to an auto repair garage and warehouse the one story building on the
rear of a irregular shaped lot.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 95-236: 2143
to March 25, 1996.
Calendar No. 95-237: 2147
to March 25, 1996.
Calendar No. 95-241: 2169
to March 25, 1996.
Calendar No. 95-242: 2173
to March 25, 1996.

W. 7th St.
W. 7th St.
W. 7th St.
W. 7th St.

ANTHONY COSTANZO,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
February 21, 1996
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action the subject meeting is given
for publication in the City Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-4-96.
RE: Appeal of Daryl & Mel Ross
dba The Bernard Group, Owners of
the Property located on the premises known as 2012 West 25th Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION NEC of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated December 19, 1995, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
No action.
*

*

*

Docket A-6-96.
RE: Appeal of Edward Fields,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
1796
East
89th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated December 12, 1995, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, and the Ohio
Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require a multiple occupancy permit be obtained
within thirty days (30 das.) and
that all violations be abated within
six months (6 mos.); the property at
1796 East 89th Street is REMANDED at this time to the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision and further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bowes and
seconded by Mr. Birch.

297

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-7-96.
RE: Appeal of Edward Fields,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
1795 Crawford Road from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION - RESIDENTIAL
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and
Housing dated January 12, 1996,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that
occupancy permits be obtained within thirty days (30 das.) and that all
violations be abated within six
months (6 mos.); the property at
1795 Crawford Road is REMANDED
at this time to the Division of Building and Housing for supervision
and further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-8-96 - RE: Appeal of
Edward Fields, Owner of the Residential Property located on the
premises known as 1594 East 85th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated January 12, 1996, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that
occupancy permits be obtained and
all hazardous violations be abated
within thirty days (30 das.), and
that all violations be abated within
six months (6 mos.); the property at
1594 East 85th Street is REMANDED at this time to the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision and further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Birch.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-9-96.
RE: Appeal of National Terminal
Apartment Limited Liability Co.,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1200 West
10th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated January 17, 1996, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-9-96 has been POSTPONED to be rescheduled for a later
date.
*

*

*

Docket A-12-96.
RE: Appeal of Lawrence Zupancic, Owner of the Residential Property located on the premises known
as 15251 Saranac Road from a CONDEMNATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated January 9,

The City Record

30
1996, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, Based on the
fact that the Appellant is going to
reside on the premises at 15251
Saranac Road, a motion is in order
at this time to modify the Commissioner’s CONDEMNATION NOTICE
and LETTER OF INTENTION TO
DEMOLISH by requiring Appellant
to obtain a Home Owner’s permit
within fourteen days (14 das.), and
to grant the Appellant thirty days
(30 das.) in which to complete
abatement of the violations; and to
request an interior inspection to
insure compliance with all Codified
Ordinances. Upon passage of this
motion,
this
matter
shall
be
REMANDED to the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing at this time for supervision and
further action. All other provisions
of the CONDEMNATION NOTICE
and
LETTER
OF
INTENT
TO
DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions
that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
April 6, 1996. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-19-96.
RE: Appeal of Urban Housing
Limited, Owner of the Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 2453 Tremont Avenue
from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated January 16, 1996, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the
structure to be constructed as indicated on the drawings with the provision that ADULTS ONLY occupy
the loft bedroom, and that the statue opening on window #2 on the
third level be identified as 5.7 s.f by
Code requirements, and that an
emergency rope ladder be installed
in the window to allow egress on
the deck.
Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-22-96.
RE: Appeal of Malinda Orahoske,
Owner of the Residential Property
and proposed Swimming Pool located on the premises known as 918
Bern Avenue from a NOTICE OF
NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated February 2,
1996, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in

order at this time to permit the pool
to be erected as indicated on the
drawings, noting the concurrence of
the adjacent neighbor and noting
that there is no occupancy in the
other two directions on the north
boundary line. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bowes and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-24-96.
RE: Appeal of C.M.H.A./Carver
Park Estates, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as
2370 Unwin Road from a NOTICE
OF NONCONFORMANCE - HVAC of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated January 26, 1996, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, and the Ohio
Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the
plumbing and heating systems to
remain without full inspection, noting that an additional access door
will be provided and that there are
access doors at this time that allow
the inspector to review in general
the character of the installed piping, and noting that venting will be
provided in the soffits to prevent
build up of any gases; the variance
is granted to all structures pending
the agreement of the inspector.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.

February 28, 1996
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-186-95—William Averyhart
A-3-96—Eleanore Middleton
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-25-96.
RE: Appeal of C.M.H.A./Carver
Park Estates, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as
2370 Unwin Road from a NOTICE
OF NONCONFORMANCE - NEC of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated January 26, 1996, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, and the Ohio
Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action.
*

*

A-187-95—The Huntington National Bank
A-188-95—Patricia Gonzales
A-190-95—Greater Cleveland R.T.A.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

A-185-95—Arto Green
A-14-96—C.M.H.A./Carver Park Estates
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Birch and seconded by Mr.
Williams for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolution as presented by

298

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bowes and seconded by Mr.
Birch for Approval of the Minutes
as
presented
by
the
Secretary
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland:
February 7, 1996
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Birch,
Williams, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard
Norris,
last
known
address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment 2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Bowes for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolution as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Birch for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolution as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):

*
*

*

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Clubroom B,
Convention Center, in accordance
with the appended schedule, and
will be opened and read in Clubroom B, Convention Center, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to

February 28, 1996
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with representations made on these forms
may result in cancellation of the
contract or other civil or criminal
penalties.”
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1996
Jail Cells/Safety Screens Installation at City District Police Stations (5-96), for the Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1333-88, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, February 24, 1992.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
February 21 and February 28, 1996
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1996
Three (3) Tractors, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1911-94, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 6, 1995.
Herbicides,
for
the
Division
of
Parks Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 86-96, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
February 12, 1996.
Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining
of Distribution Mains in Areas 963, 96-4, 96-5 and 96-6, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1662-95, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 20, 1995.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT
WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15)
DAYS AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE. A PRE-BID MEETING
WILL BE HELD ON MONDAY,
MARCH 4, 1996 AT 10:00 A.M. IN

The City Record
AUDITORIUM A OF THE PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE.
February 21 and February 28, 1996

31
nance No. 213-93, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 13, 1996.
February 28 and March 6, 1996

FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1996

FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1996

E Z Pack Packer Parts and Labor,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2146-95, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
January 8, 1996.

One (1) Tandem Dump Truck, for
the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 679-95, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 19,
1995.

Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining
of Distribution Mains in Areas 961 and 96-2, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1662-95, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November
20, 1995.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT
WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15)
DAYS AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE. A PRE-BID MEETING
WILL BE HELD ON MONDAY,
MARCH 4, 1996 AT 10:00 A.M. IN
AUDITORIUM A OF THE PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE.

Repair Rear Loading Packer Bodies,
for the Division of Waste Collection, Department of Public Service,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2280-95, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, February 12,
1996.

February and February 28, 1996
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 1996
Moulton Park - Phase II Cul-de Sac
and Site Improvements, for the
Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance Nos.
1455-94 and 683-95, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 24, 1994 and June 12,
1995, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS
($25.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT
WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15)
DAYS AFTER THE BID OPENING
DATE.
A
PRE-BID
MEETING
WILL BE HELD ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 8, 1996 AT 10:00 A.M. AT
1501 NORTH MARGINAL ROAD,
1ST FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM.
February 28 and March 6, 1996
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1996
Traffic Painting, Thermoplastic and
Reflective Glass Beads, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 219195, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 5,
1996.
Marking Center and Lane Lines, for
the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Safety,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2192-95, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, February 5,
1996.
High Voltage Test Equipment, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordi-

299

Repair Compactors and Push Pits at
Ridge Road Transfer Station, for
the Division of Waste Collection,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 228195, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 12,
1996.
February 28 and March 6, 1996
FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1996
Electric Motors and Pumps, for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1237-95, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, November 29, 1995.
Hydraulic
Pumps,
Motors
and
Valves, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2004-94, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 12, 1994.
February 28 and March 6, 1996

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
NONE

REPRINT
___________
Res. No. 269-96.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1023
Ansel Road, first floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6261442,
Mustafa
&Brahim,
Inc.,
1023 Ansel Road, first floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to
Permit No. 0037008, Abukhalil &
Sons, Inc., dba Abeco Deli, 1023
Ansel Road, first floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

The City Record

32
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said permit must be received by the Director of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
6261442,
Mustafa
&Brahim,
Inc.,
1023 Ansel Road, first floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to
Permit No. 0037008, Abukhalil &
Sons, Inc., dba Abeco Deli, 1023
Ansel Road, first floor and base-

ment, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 12, 1996.
Effective February 20, 1996.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

February 28, 1996
Coats,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Lewis,
McGuirk, Melena, Miller, Patmon,
Patton, Paulenske, Polensek, Robinson, Rokakis, Rybka, Smith, Westbrook, White, Willis, Zone. Excused:
O’Malley.
Monday, February 26, 1996
Finance Committee (Budget): 9:30
P.M. — Present: Rokakis, Chrm.;
Westbrook, V-Chrm.; Coats, Johnson,
Lewis, McGuirk, Patmon, Polensek,
Robinson, Rybka, Smith.
Finance Committee: 2:00 P.M. —
Present:
Rokakis,
Chrm.;
Westbrook,
V-Chrm.;
Coats,
Johnson,
Lewis, McGuirk, Patmon, Polensek,
Robinson, Rybka, Smith.
City Planning Committee (Joint
with Finance): 2:30 P.M. — Present:
Rybka, Chrm.; Britt, V-Chrm.; Paulenske,
Rokakis,
White,
Zone.
Excused: O’Malley.
Finance Committee (Joint with
City Planning): 2:30 P.M. — Present:
Rokakis,
Chrm.;
Westbrook,
VChrm.;
Coats,
Johnson,
Lewis,
McGuirk, Patmon, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka, Smith.

Thursday, February 22, 1996

Tuesday, February 27, 1996

Committee of the Whole (Stadium): 9:30 P.M. — Present: Britt,
Coats,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Lewis,
McGuirk, Melena, Miller, Patmon,
Patton, Paulenske, Polensek, Robinson, Rokakis, Rybka, Smith, Westbrook, White, Willis, Zone. Excused:
O’Malley.

Finance Committee (Budget): 9:30
P.M. — Present: Rokakis, Chrm.;
Westbrook, V-Chrm.; Coats, Johnson,
Lewis, McGuirk, Patmon, Polensek,
Robinson, Rybka, Smith.

Friday, February 23, 1996
Committee of the Whole (Stadium): 9:30 P.M. — Present: Britt,

Wednesday, February 28, 1996
Finance Committee (Budget): 9:30
P.M. — Present: Rokakis, Chrm.;
Westbrook, V-Chrm.; Coats, Johnson,
Lewis, McGuirk, Patmon, Polensek,
Robinson, Rybka, Smith.

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchases and Supplies — purchase a site for Humphrey
Park Facility — expansion — project at 15900 Lake Shore Boulevard — 16013 Damon
Avenue (O 317-96)
Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchases and Supplies — to convey the board of trustee
— Cleveland Public Library — Eastman Park declaring — easement rights no longer
needed for public use (O 316-96)
Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchases and Supplies to purchases — Memphis School —
located at 4103 Memphis Avenue — Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchase and
Supplies — to convey — property Charter One Bank (O 311-96)
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — enter into and execute
— lease agreement for Charles V. Carr Center — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — term ten years (O 307-96)
Authorizing the sale of real property — Land Reutilization Program — located at 2407
W 40 Street — 2413 W 40 Street (O 321-96)
Constructing a new stadium — authorizing the director of Parks, Recreation and Properties
— enter into contract — public improvement and related purchases — enter into
agreement with the State of Ohio — Greater Cleveland Region (O 304-96)
Declaring the property — located at 9813-15 North Boulevard — blighted premises
— Section 324.01 through 324.16 — authorizing the Director of Community Development
— acquire blighted premises and sell premises — Famicos Foundation (O 312-96)
Rescinding the designation — Afro-American Cultural & Historical — Society Museum
(O 310-96)

287

287

290

283
289

274

285
285

City Planning Department
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1424-95, passed September 25, 1995 — public right-of-way
— West 9th Street near Front Avenue for West 9th Street Bridge — City Planning
Department (O 2186-95)

300

294

February 28, 1996

The City Record

33

Cleveland Public Schools
Urging all major — industries and businesses — Cleveland vicinity — adopt school within
— Cleveland Public School system — provide human and financial resources
(R 324-96)

290

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section 133.33 — Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976 — amended by
Ordinances No. 1451-95 — passed August 23, 1995 — relating to parking
fee (O 308-96)

284

Communications
Announcement of candidates — city council stating — comply voluntary campaign —
expenditure limits (F 286-96)
Annual Report — licenses and permits — issued during fiscal year 1995 (F 282-96)
Deposits and Expenditures — Mandatory drug fine — law enforcement trust fund
(F 283-96)
Emergency Requisition (RE-81266) — Air Handler Unit — #AC-3 (F 284-96)
Resolution 1996-4 — opposing Cleveland Water Department — proposed rate increase
(F 285-96)

271
271
271
271
271

Community Development
Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchases and Supplies to purchases — Memphis School —
located at 4103 Memphis Avenue — Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchase and
Supplies — to convey — property Charter One Bank (O 311-96)
Authorizing the sale of real property — Land Reutilization Program — located at 2407
W 40 Street — 2413 W 40 Street (O 321-96)
Declaring the property — located at 9813-15 North Boulevard — blighted premises
— Section 324.01 through 324.16 — authorizing the Director of Community Development
— acquire blighted premises and sell premises — Famicos Foundation (O 312-96)

290
289

285

Condolences
Butts, Rutha (R 337-96)
Rev. Sutton, Solomon J. II (R 332-96)
Satchell, Elder Nehemiah Jr. (R 336-96)

272
272
272

Congratulations
Ali, Mir Laik (R 339-96)
Murphy, David C. (R 340-96)
Savidge, Martin (R 338-96)

272
272
272

Finance Department
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Finance — enter into contracts — Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Ohio — Medical Life Insurance, HMO Health, Kaiser Permanente, Aetna
Health and Personal Physician Care — provide medical coverage emp (O 320-96)
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — enter into
a agreement — purchase heavy duty equipment and accessories (O 202-96)
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Public Safety — enter into a requirement
contract — competitive bidding — Simon Duplex — purchase of replacement parts and
labor chassis — equipment remain under warranty (O 319-96)
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Public Safety — enter into a requirement
contract — competitive bidding — Maltese Fire Equipment — Purchase of replacement
parts and labor — L.T.I. apparatus order equipment remain under (O 318-96)
Authorizing and Directing — purchase by requirement contract — labor and materials
needed to fabricate — ring and pinion gears (O 314-96)
Authorizing and Directing —purchase by contract — maintenance for a mainframe computer
— associated subsystem (O 158-96)
Authorizing and Directing —purchase by contract — not to exceed — three meter test
benches (O 313-96)
Authorizing and Directing the Director of Finance - enter into a maintenance agreement
- without bidding Decision One Corporation - maintenance for Braegen computer devices
(O 157-96)
Authorizing and Directing the Director of Finance - enter into license agreement - without
bidding - SAS Institute (O 156-96)
Authorizing and Directing — purchase by requirement contract — labor and materials —
maintain landscapes at various waterworks (O 315-96)
Authorizing and directing the Director of Finance - enter into license agreement - without
bidding International Business Machines - Computer software (O 155-96)
Authorizing the Acquisition — Lease Purchase — sport facility (O 305-96)

301

288
294

288

288
286
294-295
286

294-295
294-295
286
294-295
275

The City Record

34

February 28, 1996

Authorizing the Director of Law - apply for grant - Cleveland Foundation - 1996 Attorney
Training Program (O 207-96)
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — accept gift of two
thousand tee shirts and caps — Cleveland Indian Charities (O 309-96)
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — enter into and execute
— lease agreement for Charles V. Carr Center — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — term ten years (O 307-96)
Authorizing the Mayor — enter into agreements — National Football League, Cuyahoga
County, Cleveland Development Partnership — entities financing, construction
operation — new stadium — commitment of NFL franchise — located in Cleveland
(O 303-96)
Constructing a new stadium — authorizing the director of Parks, Recreation and Properties
— enter into contract — public improvement and related purchases — enter into
agreement with the State of Ohio — Greater Cleveland Region (O 304-96)
Providing issuance and sale — principal amount not to exceed $20,000,000 — anticipation
issuance of bonds — constructing sport facility — demolition of Municipal Stadium
— payable from City Nontax Revenues — related matters (O 306-96)

294-295
285

283

272

274

277

Law Department
Urging law firm of Jones, Day Reavis and Pogue — Substantial contribution to — Cleveland
Public School System — payments received from Art Modell — Cleveland Stadium
Corporation (R 323-96)

292

Liquor Permits
1054 East 71 Street — Transfer of location applications 22449730005 — Dom’s Deli Co.
(F 296-96)
1064 Old River Road — Transfer of Ownership 6553032 — Cleveland Beach Club
(F 294-96)
1076 East 105th Street 1st Fl. — Transfer of Ownership 1882981 — Sellesteen Inc.
(F 289-96)
1148 Main Avenue — Riverbend Restaurant — Transfer of Location Application
(F 287-96)
11521 Clifton Blvd. & Gas Pumps — transfer of ownership applications 2815939 — Forest
& Associates (F 298-96)
12420 Superior Avenue — New Application — Superior Store (F 290-96)
1701 East 12th Street — New Application 2215195 — Embassy Suite (F 293-96)
2615 Lorain — Withdrawing objection — renewal D2, D2X, D3 and D3A — Repealing Res.
1500-95 (R 334-96)
3156, 15105 St. Clair Avenue — Transfer of location application 740156031561 — Rite Aid
of Ohio (F 295-96)
3829 Denison — Withdrawing objection — transfer of Ownership — repealing Res. No.
2073-95 (R 333-96)
3892 West 130th Street — transfer of ownership 1913808 — Dana Food Mart
(F 292-96)
4735 Rocky River Drive — withdrawing objection — transfer of ownership — repealing Res.
No. 2251-95 (R 330-96)
4920 Memphis Avenue — Transfer of ownership application 5208420 — Linda Coleman, dba
Dairy Mart (F 297-96)
5404 Storer Avenue — Objecting — transfer of ownership (R 329-96)
6909 Clark Avenue — Transfer of Ownership 2471945 — Elena Inc. (F 291-96)
8502 Quincy Avenue — Objecting — transfer of ownership (R 328-96)
9300 Wade Park — New Application 9331538 — Wade Park Supermarket (F 288-96)
Ansel Road, 1023 — Objecting — transfer of ownership (R 269-96)

271
271
271
271
272
271
271
293
271
293
271
293
272
292
271
292
271
299-R

Mayor’s Appointments
Anderson, Jesse — re-appointment — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority — three
year term — expire on March 5, 1999 (F 301-96-A)
Dixon, George F. — re-appointment — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
— Three year term — expire March 5, 1999 (F 302-96-A)
Reverend Jones, Alvin T. — Police Review Board — expire on August 8, 1998
(F 300-96-A)

272
272
272

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — enter into
a agreement — purchase heavy duty equipment and accessories (O 202-96)
Authorizing the Acquisition — Lease Purchase — sport facility (O 305-96)
Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchases and Supplies — purchase a site for Humphrey
Park Facility — expansion — project at 15900 Lake Shore Boulevard — 16013 Damon
Avenue (O 317-96)
Authorizing the Commissioner — Purchases and Supplies — to convey the board of trustee
— Cleveland Public Library — Eastman Park declaring — easement rights no longer
needed for public use (O 316-96)

302

294
275

287

287

February 28, 1996

The City Record

Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — enter into and execute
— lease agreement for Charles V. Carr Center — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — term ten years (O 307-96)
Authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties — accept gift of two
thousand tee shirts and caps — Cleveland Indian Charities (O 309-96)
Authorizing the Mayor — enter into agreements — National Football League, Cuyahoga
County, Cleveland Development Partnership — entities financing, construction
operation — new stadium — commitment of NFL franchise — located in Cleveland
(O 303-96)
Constructing a new stadium — authorizing the director of Parks, Recreation and Properties
— enter into contract — public improvement and related purchases — enter into
agreement with the State of Ohio — Greater Cleveland Region (O 304-96)
Providing issuance and sale — principal amount not to exceed $20,000,000 — anticipation
issuance of bonds — constructing sport facility — demolition of Municipal Stadium
— payable from City Nontax Revenues — related matters (O 306-96)

35

283
285

272

274

277

Permits
Consenting and approving — issuance a permit — 1996 Walk for Hunger May 11, 1996
— Sponsored by Hunger Network (O 326-96)
Consenting and approving — issuance of a permit — for Multiple Sclerosis — April 14,
1996 — Sponsored by Northeast Ohio Chapter (O 327-96)
Consenting and approving — issuance permit for — Walk on March 2, 1996 — sponsored by
People Before Profits (O 325-96)

291
291
291

Police Review Board
Reverend Jones, Alvin T. — Police Review Board — expire on August 8, 1998 (F.300-96-A)

272

Port Control Department
Development agreement - Chelm Management Company- property - north of
Cleveland Hopkins Airport - Port Control Department (O 1242-95)

294

Recognitions
Independence of Lithuania (R 341-96)
National Black Police Association Day (R 342-96)

272
272

Regional Transit Authority
Anderson, Jesse — re-appointment — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority — three year term — expire on March 5, 1999 (F.301-96)

272

Dixon, George F. — re-appointment — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority — Three year term — expire March 5, 1999 (F.302-96)

272

Repealed Ordinances and Resolutions (Noncodified)
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1424-95, passed September 25, 1995 — public right-of-way
— West 9th Street near Front Avenue for West 9th Street Bridge — City Planning
Department (O 2186-95)

294

Retirement
Opposing staff report — Joint Legislative Committee — Public Retirement Plans —
recommends minimum retirement age — STRS, PERS and SERS employees increased
(R 331-96)

293

Safety Department
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Public Safety — enter into a requirement
contract — competitive bidding — Maltese Fire Equipment — Purchase of replacement
parts and labor — L.T.I. apparatus order equipment remain under (O 318-96)
Authorizing and Directing — Director of Public Safety — enter into a requirement
contract — competitive bidding — Simon Duplex — purchase of replacement parts and
labor chassis — equipment remain under warranty (O 319-96)

288

288

Service Department
Declaring the intention to vacate — Hazard Court N.E. (R 322-96)

303

289

The City Record

36

February 28, 1996

Statement of Work Acceptance
Contract No. 48517 — Rockefeller, Gordon and Holden Parks Trust Pavement
(F 299-96)

272

Utilities Department
Authorizing and Directing — purchase by requirement contract — labor and materials
needed to fabricate — ring and pinion gears (O 314-96)
Authorizing and Directing —purchase by contract — not to exceed — three meter test
benches (O 313-96)
Authorizing and Directing — purchase by requirement contract — labor and materials —
maintain landscapes at various waterworks (O 315-96)

304

286
286
286

