The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Seventeenth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

20

Board of Control

20

Civil Service

22

Board of Zoning Appeals

22

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
23
Public Notice

25

Public Hearings

26

City of Cleveland Bids

26

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

26

Committee Meetings

30

Index

31

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44108
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5184

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.

Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 15, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Kevin J. Kelley,
Eugene R. Miller, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt,
Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney,
Jay
Westbrook
and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief of Education Monyka S.
Price,
Chief
of
Communications
Maureen Harper, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief of
Public Affairs Natoya Walker-Minor,
and Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith, Wasik, Butler, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich and Ambroz.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
JOURNAL CORRECTION
Motion by Council Member Cleveland, seconded by Council Member
Kelley, that the Clerk be instructed

595

to correct the journal of the April 1,
2013, meeting of the Council (City
Record Volume 100, page 511), at
“SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED” by striking
all references to Ordinance No. 67-13
including
its
amendment,
then
inserting the following:
“Ord. No. 67-13
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and
accept a grant from the Robert
Wood Johnson Foundation and PEW
Charitable Trusts for the Health
Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Approved by the Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Health and Human Services, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 1, strike
“Director of the City Planning Commission” and insert “Director of City
Planning, in coordination with the
Director of Public Health,”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.”
And, further, that the Clerk be
instructed to publish these amendments correctly in the City Record
and to re-publish the final printing
of this legislation.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cleveland, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Kelley.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 552-13.
April 15, 2013
Allen Dreyer
Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Mr. Dreyer:
In the absence of Clerk Patricia
J. Britt, you are hereby requested,
without objection, to serve as Clerk

The City Record

4
of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of the Meeting of Council on
April 15, 2013, as well as for any
other purpose during the period of
April 16 through April 18, 2013.
Your assistance is appreciated.
Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney,
President Council

RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 557-13—Cleveland Asian
Festival (4th Annual).
Res. No. 558-13—Playhouse Square
— 20th Annual “Fair on the Square”
Res. No. 559-13—14th Annual Timothy Leadership Conference.

Received.
File No. 546-13.
From Natasha Brandt, Interim
Manager of Division of Internal
Audit, Department of Finance, City
of
Cleveland
—
Internal
Audit
Report on the City of Cleveland
employee
health
care
benefits
administered through the Department of Human Resources for the
period January 1 to May 31, 2012.
Received.
File No. 547-13.
From Natasha Brandt, Interim
Manager of Division of Internal
Audit, Department of Finance, City
of
Cleveland
—
Internal
Audit
Report on a follow-up Public Safety
Audit of the Police Property Room
for the period ending June 30, 2011.
Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 544-13.
Roland Pavlik — Lieutenant
Division of Fire. Received.

of

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 543-13.
RE:
#01608940005
C1
—
New
License Application — Amana My
Way Deli Inc., d.b.a. Corlett Deli,
12401 Corlett Avenue. (Ward 2).
Received
File No. 545-13.
RE: #1257407 D5A D6 — New
License Application — Carique Hospitality LLC, 1111 West 10th Street.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 548-13.
RE: #51697480005 D5B — New
License Application — Levy Premium Foodservice Limited, 300 Lakeside Avenue and 1 St. Clair Avenue.
(Ward 3). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 539-13—Gus Moulagiannis.
Res. No. 551-13—Francis Chambers.
Res. No. 553-13—Christine Marie
Johnson Malone.
Res. No. 554-13—Dr. Christopher
Roark.
Res. No. 555-13—Queen E. Duncan.
Res. No. 560-13—Esther Hamm.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 556-13—George L. Forbes,
Esq.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 532-13.
By Council Members Zone, Mitchell
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 187.04, 187.06, 187.12, and
187.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 77-08, passed February 4, 2008, relating to the Cleveland
Area Business Code.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 187.04,
187.06, 187.12, and 187.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 7708, passed February 4, 2008, are
amended to read as follows:
Section 187.04 CSB Goals of Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of CSB participation in Contracts, each Contracting
Department shall use its best efforts
to utilize CSBs as Contractors and
subcontractors for all contracts in
excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). The annual City-wide
goal for CSB participation in Public
Improvement Contracts shall be thirty percent (30%), in professional services Contracts shall be ten percent
(10%), and in all other Contracts
shall be twenty percent (20%) or such
other goal fixed by the Director for a
particular Contract.
(b) To meet the goals fixed under
division (a) of this section, Contracting Departments, in consultation
with the Director, shall consider use
of Bid Discounts under division (b)
and (d) of Section 187.03 when recommending a bid as lowest and best or
lowest responsible or recommending
a proposal as best. Each Contracting
Department shall be responsible for
ensuring that invitations to bid or
requests for proposal issued by or for
that department comply with all provisions and procedures set forth in
this chapter.
(c) In determining the CSB participation that shall be applied toward
meeting the goals fixed under division (a) of this section, the Director
shall credit:
(1) Expenditures to CSBs that perform Commercially Useful Functions
in implementation or performance of
a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to CSB manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce
goods from raw materials or the product of raw materials and add value by
substantially altering them before
resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to CSB Suppliers that are not

596

April 17, 2013
manufacturers, provided that the CSB
Supplier performs a Commercially
Useful Function in the supply
process;
(4) Should a CSB subcontractor further subcontract its participation in a
Contract to a non-CSB subcontractor,
only the work or supplies actually
performed or furnished by the CSB
shall
be
applied
subcontractor
towards meeting the goals fixed
under division (a) of this section;
(5) No credit shall apply for a Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s contract(s) for the purchase of materials,
equipment, services, or supplies that
are incident to the performance of services under the Contract or for the
general operation of its business and
not attributable exclusively to the
particular subcontract; and
(6) A percentage of the total dollar
value of the Contract with a CSB Joint
Venture equal to the percentage of
CSB participation in the Joint Venture shall be counted towards meeting the goals fixed under division (a)
of this section. If the CSB is responsible for performance of a clearly
defined portion of the work to be performed, equal in proportion to its
share in the ownership, control, management, responsibility, risk, and
profits of the Joint Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
goals fixed under division (a) of this
section, Contractors shall use CSBs to
perform a Commercially Useful Function during the implementation or
performance of the Contract. Failure
to do so will be a material breach of
the Contract, and may subject the
Contractor to criminal prosecution,
decertification, and other sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the CSB subcontractor
participation goals fixed in division
(a) of this section for participation
under any Contract in a calendar year
by any CSB subcontractor that has
contracted under a City contract more
than a maximum annual dollar
amount per year fixed by the Director
in the Regulations from time to time,
except that the Director may apply
credit toward the CSB subcontractor
participation goals upon written
request of a Bidder or Contractor
attesting that no other certified CSBs
are available to perform the work or
supply the materials required for the
Contract under which the CSB is a
subcontractor, or in an emergency, or
for such other reasons that the Director determines require use of that
CSB. Nothing in the foregoing shall be
deemed to prohibit a Contractor from
subcontracting to that CSB, or that
CSB from performing work or supplying materials under any Contract
without participation credit.
Section 187.06 MBE/FBE Goals of
Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of MBE and
FBE participation in City Contracts
when past or present discrimination
against such type of MBEs or FBEs or
category of contract has been evidenced as provided in Section 187.28,
each Contracting Department shall
use its best efforts to utilize certified
MBEs and FBEs as Contractors or
subcontractors for all contracts in
excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) where applicable. The
Director may determine the appropriate annual City-wide goals for MBE
and FBE participation for each type
of Contract, including, but not limited

April 17, 2013
to, Construction, non-professional and
professional services, supplies, and
concessions, and for each type of
work to be performed under a particular Contract, based on the availability
of certified MBEs and FBEs as to
which past or present discrimination
has been demonstrated as provided in
Section 187.28. The Director shall
cause the goals to be published in the
Regulations.
The Director shall fix the goals for
MBE and FBE participation in a particular Contract in consultation with
the Contracting Department based
upon the annual City-wide goals for
each type of Contract and for each
type of work to be performed in the
Contract and the availability of certified MBEs and FBEs. The Director
may fix the goals for a particular Contract at a level exceeding the annual
City-wide goals to assist a Contracting Department in meeting the annual City- wide goal for the particular
type of Contract to be awarded.
(b) Contracting Departments shall
consider use of certified MBEs and
FBEs when recommending a lowest
and best or lowest responsible bid to
meet the specified annual goals and
may apply a Bid Discount for Bid
Comparison under division (c) of Section 187.05. However, these goals are
not intended as quotas. Each Contracting Department shall ensure
that bids or proposals emanating
from that department comply with the
procedures and provisions in this
chapter and the Regulations.
(c) In evaluating the MBE and FBE
participation that shall apply toward
a Contracting Department’s annual
goals, the Director shall credit:
(1) Expenditures to certified MBEs
and FBEs that perform Commercially
Useful Functions in implementation
or performance of a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to certified MBE
and FBE manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce goods from raw
materials or the product of raw materials and add value by substantially
altering them before resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to certified MBE and FBE Suppliers that are not manufacturers,
provided that the MBE and FBE Supplier performs a Commercially Useful
Function in the supply process;
(4) Should a MBE or FBE subcontractor further subcontract its participation in a Contract to a non-MBE or
non-FBE only the work actually performed by the MBE or FBE subcontractor shall apply towards the Contracting Department’s annual MBE or
FBE participation goals;
(5) No credit shall apply to a Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s contract(s) for the purchase of materials,
equipment, services, or supplies that
are incident to the performance of services under the Contract or for the
general operation of its business and
not attributable exclusively to the
particular subcontract;
(6) A Contractor or subcontractor
that qualifies as both a MBE and FBE
may obtain certification as both a
MBE and FBE. The total dollar value
of a particular Contract with such
Contractor or subcontractor may
count only toward the MBE or FBE
goal, but not toward both. The Contractor must choose the category to
which the Contract value should be
applied; and
(7) A portion of the total dollar
value of the Contract with a CSB,
MBE, or FBE Joint Venture equal to

The City Record
the percentage of certified CSB, MBE,
or FBE participation in the Joint Venture may count toward meeting MBE
and FBE goals. The CSB, MBE, or
FBE must be responsible for performance of a clearly defined, distinct
portion of the Contract work of equal
proportion to its share in the ownership, control, management, responsibility, risk, and profits of the Joint
Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
MBE and FBE goals, Contractors
shall use MBEs and FBEs to perform
a Commercially Useful Function in
implementation or performance of the
Contract. Failure to do so will not
only be considered a material breach
of the Contract, but may also subject
the Contractor to criminal prosecution for fraudulent misrepresentation, decertification, and to other
sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the MBE and FBE subcontractor participation goals fixed
under division (a) of this section for
participation under any Contract in a
calendar year by any one (1) MBE or
FBE subcontractor that has contracted under a City contract more than a
maximum annual dollar amount per
MBE or FBE per year fixed by the
Director in the Regulations from time
to time, except that the Director may
apply credit toward the MBE or FBE
subcontractor participation goals
upon written request of a Bidder or
Contractor attesting that no other certified MBEs or FBEs are available to
perform the work or supply the materials required for the Contract under
which the MBE or FBE is a subcontractor, or in an emergency, or for
such other reasons that the Director
determines require use of that MBE or
FBE. Nothing in the foregoing shall
be deemed to prohibit a Contractor
from subcontracting to that MBE or
FBE, or that MBE or FBE from performing work or supplying materials
under any Contract without participation credit.
(f) This section shall apply, as
remedial action, only to the specified
types and categories of Contracts and
the contracting for those types and
categories of Contracts, for which the
City has developed or obtained, by
disparity study or otherwise, a legally sufficient basis in evidence to
demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of Minority
Persons, Females, MBEs, or FBEs.
Section 187.12 Responsibilities of
Contracting Departments
The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies and each Contracting
Department shall:
(a) Endeavor to maximize the participation of CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs
in Contracts of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) or less;
(b) Develop lists of CSBs, MBEs,
and FBEs experienced in the various
types of services, products, or property for which the City typically contracts;
(c) Report to the Director quarterly
not later than thirty (30) calendar
days after the end of the previous
quarter specifying, with respect to
Contracts and subcontracts:
(1) The means by which it intends
to meet goals established under this
chapter in the forthcoming quarter;
(2) The percentage and dollar
amount of those Contracts and subcontracts awarded in the previous
quarter to CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs;

597

5
(3) For each Contracting Department, the degree to which it has met
goals set forth in this chapter, any
past and current activities undertaken and being undertaken to meet such
goals and, if applicable, a detailed
explanation of why it has not met the
goals; and
(4) Other information as the Director may request; and
(d) Appoint one (1) or more members of each Contracting Department
to serve as a liaison between the Contracting Department and the OEO,
and to nominate a member of the contracting department or division to
serve on the Review and Evaluation
Committee provided under Section
187.23.
Section 187.14 Small Contract Rotation Program
(a) Provided that a disparity study
or otherwise establishes a legally sufficient basis to employ a Small Contract Rotation Program as a remedy
for past or present discrimination
under Section 187.28, the Director
shall establish a Small Contract Rotation Program for MBEs and FBEs,
including procedures, applicable to
the categories of construction, professional services and purchase contracts where the cost of the Contract
is anticipated to be under fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The purposes of the Small Contract Rotation Program are to increase contract opportunities for categories of MBEs and
FBEs, that have been underutilized at
a statistically significant level in
Contracts under fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), to provide an orderly
and efficient method of awarding purchases and work, and to equitably distribute purchases and work among
qualified Contractors.
(b) Under the Small Contract Rotation Program, the City shall limit
every second contract to be let by the
City for each type of contract, within
a category where MBEs and FBEs are
underutilized at a statistically significant level, to competition among certified MBEs and FBEs who submit an
application in a form acceptable to
the Director. The Director shall compile an approved list comprised of not
less than two (2) certified MBEs and
FBEs for each industry and, as needed, compile specialized lists within
industries. The eligible businesses
shall be alphabetically ranked on
each list and, for a thirty (30) day
period commencing on January 1st
and June 1st of each year, the Director shall hold open enrollment for
applicants. The lists of prequalified
vendors shall be made available to
the public. The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies shall solicit bids
or proposals from all MBEs or FBEs
on the list for each contract to be
entered into under the Small Contract
Rotation Program. When only one (1)
qualified vendor is on the list, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies may purchase directly from that
firm by direct negotiation of the purchase price.
Section 2. That existing Sections
187.04, 187.06, 187.12, and 187.14 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance
No. 77-08, passed February 4, 2008, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

6
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 533-13.
By Council Members Zone, Mitchell
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 188.01 to 188.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to the Fannie M.
Lewis
Cleveland
Resident
and
Apprentice Employment Law; to
retitle Chapter 188 of the Codified
Ordinances as the Fannie M. Lewis
Cleveland Resident and Apprentice
Employment Law; and to supplement the Codified Ordinances by
enacting new Section 188.021 relating to apprentices.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 188.01 and 188.02, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1056-10,
passed October 25, 2010,
Sections 188.03 and 188.04, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003,
Section 188.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1056-10, passed October 25,
2010, and
Sections 188.06, 188.07, and 188.08, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 188.01 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the
following words, phrases and terms
are defined as follows:
(a) “Apprentice” means any Resident, at least sixteen years of age,
except when a higher minimum age
standard is otherwise fixed by law,
who is (1) a graduate of a Bona Fide
Apprenticeship Program including,
but not limited to, such an apprenticeship program of the Cleveland Metropolitan School District or of a “partnering community school” located
within the territory of the CMSD as
defined in R.C. Section 3311.742; or (2)
enrolled or indentured per trade occupation as a member of a Bona Fide
Apprenticeship Program , or a Resident in the first 90 days of probationary employment as an apprentice in
such an apprenticeship program who
has been certified by the Ohio apprenticeship council or registered with the
Ohio apprenticeship council to be eligible for probationary employment as
an apprentice.
(b) “Bona Fide Apprenticeship Program” means a comprehensive training program registered with the Ohio
apprenticeship council or certified by
those with which Ohio holds reciprocal apprenticeship agreements.
(c) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(d) “City Construction Contract”,
solely for purposes of this chapter,
means and includes either a Construc-

The City Record
tion Contract or a Major Project Construction Contract, or both collectively, as the context requires.
(e) “Construction Contract” means
any agreement whereby the City
either grants a privilege or is committed to expend or does expend its funds
or other resources, or federal grant
opportunities, including without limitation,
Community
Development
Block Grants, Urban Development
Action Grants and Economic Development Administration Grants, in an
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or more, for the erection, rehabilitation, improvement,
alteration, conversion, extension,
demolition or repair of improvements
to real property, including facilities
providing utility service and includes
the supervision, inspection, and other
on-site functions incidental to construction, but does not include professional services. Construction Contract
includes any contract that is entered
into by a person or entity that
receives a grant, loan, privilege, credit, or resources from the City, from its
funds or from federal grant opportunities for the poor, minorities and/or
unemployed in an amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or
more, for the purpose of erecting,
improving, rehabilitating, altering,
converting, extending, demolishing,
or repairing real property or improvements to real property.
(f) “Construction Worker Hours”
means the total hours worked on a
City Construction Contract by Skilled
and Unskilled Construction Trade
Workers, or by Apprentices, as applicable, whether those persons are
employed by the Contractor or any
Subcontractor. In determining the
total Construction Worker Hours to
be furnished at the construction site,
there shall be included the number of
hours devoted to all tasks customarily performed on a construction site,
whether or not the tasks are, in fact,
performed on the construction site.
Construction Worker Hours excludes
the number of hours of work performed by non-Ohio residents.
(g) “Contractor” means any person
or company receiving a City Construction Contract from the City of
Cleveland, any subdivision of the
City, or any individual legally authorized to bind the City under the contract.
(h) “Director” means the Director of
the Office of Equal Opportunity.
(i) “Low-Income Person” means a
Resident who, when first employed
by a contractor, is a member of a family having a total income equal to or
less than the “Section 8” Very LowIncome limit established by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban
Development.
Very
LowIncome families are defined as families whose incomes do not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the median
family income for the area in which
they reside. Income limits are adjusted for family size. A Resident who is
not a member of a family shall be considered as a one-person family for this
purpose. A Resident shall retain
“Low-Income Person” status for a continuous five (5) year period starting
upon the OEO’s written acknowledgement that the Resident’s family
income does not exceed the abovestated limit, provided:
(1) The Resident remains employed
by the same employer that hired the
Resident as a Low-Income Person;
and

598

April 17, 2013
(2) The Resident remains a Resident during the five (5) year period.
(j) “Major Project Construction
Contract” means a Construction Contract valued at $1,000,000 or more.
(k) “Pre-apprentice” means a Resident who receives formal classroom
training designed to provide the Resident with the basic education, attitudes, skills, trade knowledge, and
motivation necessary to enter a formal apprenticeship program.
(l) “Resident” or “Resident of the
City” shall mean persons domiciled
within the boundaries of City of
Cleveland. The domicile is an individual’s one (1) and only true, fixed and
permanent home and principal establishment.
(m) “Skilled and Unskilled Construction Trade Worker” means all
work site foremen, journeyworkers,
including
technical
engineers,
apprentices, construction trainees
and elevator construction helpers and
apprentices that are in a bona fide
apprenticeship training program that
is certified by the U.S. Department of
Labor, Bureau of Apprenticeship and
Training. Also included are other
workers appropriate for construction
activities. Salaried superintendents
are excluded from this special provision.
(n) “Subcontractor(s)” means any
person or company that assumes by
secondary contract some or all of the
obligations of the original Contractor.
Section 188.02 Employment of City
Residents
(a) Where not otherwise prohibited
by federal, state, or local law or the
terms of federal or state grants, every
Construction Contract shall:
(1) Require that one (1) or more
Residents perform twenty percent
(20%) of the total Construction Worker Hours (“Resident Construction
Worker Hours”) performed under the
Construction Contract;
(2) State the penalties set forth in
Section 188.05 for failure to meet the
requirement of division (a)(1) of this
section; and
(3) Require the Contractor and its
Subcontractors to use significant
efforts to ensure that no less than
four percent (4%) of the Resident
Construction Worker Hours required
by this division are performed by
Low-Income Persons.
Upon submission of documentary
proof of the hours satisfactory to the
Director, a Contractor may include in
its Resident Construction Worker
Hours the hours worked for the Contractor or its Subcontractors by Residents who are Skilled and Unskilled
Construction Trade Workers on projects that are not under a Construction Contract, between the dates that
work under the Construction Contract
begins and ends. A Contractor may
also include in its Resident Construction Worker Hours the hours worked
by Residents who are graduates of
established, bona fide pre-apprenticeship programs approved by the Residency Construction Advisory Committee including, but not limited to, the
Bricklayers & Allied Crafts Preapprenticeship
program,
Cement
Masons Pre-apprenticeship program,
or Union Construction Industry Partnership-Apprenticeship Skill Achievement Program (“UCIP-ASAP”).
(b) The percentage levels set forth
in division (a) of this Section 188.02
are intended as minimum requirements for use of Residents under Con-

April 17, 2013
struction Contracts and shall not be
construed as limiting or deferring the
full use of Residents beyond this
numerical level.
(c) Prior to the commencement of
work, each Contractor and Subcontractor shall, if requested by the
Director, complete and submit to the
Director a work-force table. The table
shall identify the estimated workforce requirements for the duration of
the job, broken down by trade and
month. The Contractor or Subcontractor shall revise the table as required,
but not less than once a month.
Section 188.03 Standards, Reductions and No Waiver
(a) The Director, consistent with
the provisions of this chapter, shall
establish standards and procedures,
as the Director deems proper and necessary, to effectively administer the
intent and purpose of this chapter. In
creating these standards and procedures and in creating any subsequent
modifications thereof, the Director
shall work with the Chairperson of
the Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee. The standards and exceptions shall be effective thirty (30) days after publication
in the City Record. However, at least
ten (10) days prior to publication in
the City Record, the Director shall
provide the President of City Council
and the Chairperson of the Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee with a copy of the proposed standards and procedures.
(b) The standards and procedures
shall specify that the employment of
the minimum percentage of Residents
or the minimum percentage of
Apprentices may be reduced prior to
or during construction only when a
Contractor or potential Contractor
can demonstrate the high impracticality of complying with this percentage
level for particular contracts or classes of employees. The Director shall
apply the standard of “efforts to the
greatest extent feasible” to the Contractor’s or Subcontractor’s efforts
when evaluating requests for reduction. A reduction may be deemed
appropriate by the Director if a Contractor or potential Contractor has
unsuccessfully solicited a sufficient
number of Residents of the City or,
when applicable, a sufficient number
of Apprentices, to perform the work
identified in the bid specifications
and has documented such effort to the
satisfaction of the Director. In addition, such standards and procedures
shall require that a Contractor or
potential Contractor seeking a reduction shall have provided timely notice
of the need for Residents of the City
to an appropriate source(s) of referrals, as determined by the Director,
which source(s) shall be entitled to
comment on any reduction application. If the Director determines that a
lesser percentage of Residents or a
lesser percentage of Apprentices is
appropriate with respect to a potential Construction Contract or a potential Major Project Construction Contract, respectively, for which bids will
be solicited, bid specifications shall
include a statement of the revised
standards. The standards established
by the Director shall also provide for
a reduction during construction based
on petition by the Contractor demonstrating serious unforeseen circumstances, such as new governmental
regulations, national or natural disas-

The City Record
ters, war and/or other disastrous
events or high impracticality.
(c) The Director shall file his or her
determination on all reductions, and
the reasons for the reduction, with the
Clerk of City Council, the President of
City Council, and the Chairperson of
the Employment Affirmative Action
and Training Committee, within five
(5) working days of making a determination.
(d) The Director shall not waive
either the Resident Construction
Worker Hours or the Apprentice Construction Worker Hours of this chapter.
Section 188.04 Monitoring by Director: Reporting by Contractor, and
Advisory Committee to the Director.
(a) The Director shall separately
monitor the use of Residents of the
City and the use of Apprentices on all
applicable projects respectively in
Skilled and Unskilled Construction
Trade Worker positions and in construction worker positions, and shall
report his or her findings in writing to
the Clerk of City Council, the President of City Council, and to the
Employment Affirmative Action and
Training Committee of this Council
on a bimonthly basis.
(b) The Contractor shall provide
for the maintenance of all records
documenting that Residents of the
City and Apprentices, as applicable,
are employed under the City Construction Contract. The Contractor
and Subcontractor(s) shall maintain
copies of personnel documents supportive of every Resident employee’s
and of every Apprentice’s actual
record of residence.
(c) The Contractor shall designate
a principal officer of its firm to be
responsible for administering the
Resident and the Apprentice requirements for the Contractor and all of its
Subcontractor(s) under the requirements detailed in this chapter. This
officer shall meet regularly, or as
may be required, with the Director or
his or her designee to ensure compliance with the Resident and the
Apprentice requirements in this chapter. Primary responsibility for meeting established goals shall remain
with the Contractor. Certified payroll
reports (U.S. Department of Labor
form WH-347 or equivalent) in a format specified by the Director shall be
submitted monthly to the Director for
applicable construction contracts and
shall identify clearly the actual residence of every employee on each submitted certified payroll. The first
time an employee’s name appears on a
payroll, a hire date for the employee
should be included after the employee’s name.
(d) Full access to the employment
records of the Contractor and any Subcontractor that document information
that relates to the requirements of
this chapter shall be granted to the
Director and the Chief of Police, or
the duly authorized representative(s)
of either. The Contractor and Subcontractor(s) shall maintain all relevant
personnel data in records for a period
of at least three (3) years after final
completion of work. This retention
period may be extended in writing by
the Director based on an audit finding
irregularities.
(e) The Director may require affidavits and other supporting documentation from the Contractor and/or
Subcontractor(s) to verify or clarify
that an employee or an Apprentice is

599

7
a Resident when doubt or lack of clarity has arisen.
(f) There shall be established a
Residency Construction Advisory
Committee to the Director with the
charge of furthering the intents and
purposes of this chapter. Membership
shall consist of one (1) representative
appointed by the Mayor, one (1) representative appointed by the President of City Council, one (1) representative appointed by the Executive
Director of the Cleveland Building
and Construction Trade Council, one
(1) representative appointed by the
Executive Director of the Construction Employers Association or its delegate and one (1) representative
jointly appointed by the Mayor and
the President of City Council who is
not affiliated with Cleveland Building and Construction Trade Council
or the Construction Employers Association or its delegate. This Committee may establish one (1) or more
advisory subcommittees to help
achieve the goals established pursuant to this legislation.
Section 188.05 Violation and Penalty
(a) When work under a City Construction Contract is completed, and
in the event that the Director determines that the Contractor has failed
to fulfill the requirements contained
in either Section 188.02 or Section
188.021
concerning
Construction
Worker Hours performed by Residents of the City or by Apprentices,
respectively, or has failed to submit
reports as required in Sections 188.02,
188.021, and 188.04, the City is deemed
to have been damaged. Good-faith
efforts on the part of the Contractor or
Subcontractor to provide employment
to Residents of the City and to
Apprentices, when applicable, shall
not suffice to replace the actual, verified achievement of the requirements
contained in Sections 188.02 and
188.021.
(b) If a Contractor breaches a City
Construction Contract by failing to
meet the applicable Resident Construction Worker Hours and Apprentice Construction Worker Hours
requirements under Section 188.02
and Section 188.021, it shall pay the
City one-eighth of one percent
(0.125%) of the final total amount of
the respective contract for each percentage by which it fails to meet the
requirement or any reduced requirement determined appropriate by the
Director according to Section 188.03.
If a Contractor does not achieve the
Low-Income Person objective, the
Director in her or his sole discretion
shall determine whether a penalty is
appropriate and, if so, the penalty
amount the Contractor shall pay the
City.
(c) The Director, in addition to any
other remedies available for the
breaches by a Contractor identified in
division (b) of this section or for
other defaults under a City Construction Contract, may:
(1) Recommend that the City withhold all or part of any payments due
the Contractor until such time as the
Contractor cures its defaults, pays or
credits all penalties or other payments due under the City Construction Contract, the Code, or the Standards and Procedures, and is in full
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Code, the City Construction Contract, and the Standards and
Procedures relating to Resident or

8
Apprentice or Low- Income Person
employment or reporting;
(2) Recommend, based upon a
breach of or default under the Contract relating to Resident or Apprentice or Low-Income Person employment, that the City rescind, cancel, or
otherwise terminate the Contract and
declare a forfeiture of any performance bond;
(3) Recommend that the Director of
Law take the legal action, whether
civil or criminal, as he or she deems
appropriate;
(4) Recommend disqualification
under Section 181.27 or Section 185.08
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 of a Contractor from
eligibility to bid to or contract with
the City for a period not to exceed two
(2) years; or
(5) Recommend that the City make
a claim for payment of damages,
including any liquidated damages
specified in the Contract.
(d) A decision of the Director under
this section is final and may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals by filing a notice of appeal
with the Board and a copy to the
Director within fifteen (15) days of
the decision. The Board of Zoning
Appeals shall, after a hearing, determine whether the decision of the
Director is arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable. The decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals, in turn, may
be reviewed by the Common Pleas
Court of Cuyahoga County under RC
Chapter 2506, or as otherwise provided by law.
(e) Failure to submit, or knowing
falsification of, the reports required
in Sections 188.02, 188.021, and 188.04
shall constitute a breach of the City
Construction Contract subject to
assessment of the maximum penalty
provided in division (b) of this section, and the penalty shall be calculated as if no Residents of the City or
Apprentices, as appropriate, were
employed on the construction project
in furtherance of the City Construction Contract.
(f) No Contractor shall knowingly
falsify any required reports, statements or payroll certifications. Any
Contractor who knowingly falsifies
reports, statements or the certification of payroll data is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and subject to a fine of not more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). If a Contractor is convicted under this division, that Contractor shall be barred
from contracting with the City on any
construction project subject to this
chapter for a period of five (5) years.
(g) Pending determination by the
Director whether a Contractor must
pay a penalty under this chapter, the
Director may recommend that the
City withhold from amounts retained
by the City under Section 185.41 and
payable to the Contractor, the amount
of any penalty payable by the Contractor under this chapter.
(h) The imposition of any penalty
or fine under this section shall not
preclude the City from exercising any
other rights or remedies to which it is
entitled.
(i) All funds collected by the City of
Cleveland under division (b) or (c) of
this section shall be deposited into a
special account which shall be created for the sole purpose of receiving
the funds. The funds deposited into
this account shall be used for the
operation of the Office of Equal
Opportunity provided the funds have

The City Record
been appropriated for that purpose,
provided there is any necessary legislative authority and provided the
funds are used in compliance with all
laws or restrictions regarding their
use.
(j) No person shall knowingly supply false information to establish that
the person is a Resident or an Apprentice for purposes of this chapter. Any
person who knowingly supplies false
information to establish that he or she
is a Resident or an Apprentice is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Upon conviction, the person
shall be barred from employment by a
Contractor or Subcontractor on a City
Construction Contract for a period of
five (5) years.
Section 188.06 Severability
Each section and each part of each
section of this Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland
Resident
and
Apprentice
Employment Law is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section, and notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any section or part
of a section or any provision thereof,
or the application to any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of the provision to any other person or circumstances, other than those as to which
it is held invalid, shall not be affected.
It is further declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of
this Code would have been adopted
independently of the section or parts
of a section which are held to be
invalid.
Section 188.07 Duration
This Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland
Resident and Apprentice Employment Law is enacted as a temporary
measure to alleviate the lack of use of
Residents and of Apprentices on City
of Cleveland construction projects
found to exist by the Council of the
City of Cleveland. This code shall
remain in full force and effect, subject to periodic review by the Council
of the City of Cleveland. The City
Council shall regularly, but at a minimum of once every five (5) years,
determine whether there is a continuing need to ensure adequate resident
and apprentice employment, and
make relevant findings in support of
that determination, and, if necessary
amend this chapter as appropriate. In
addition, every two (2) years after
enactment of this Fannie M. Lewis
Cleveland Resident and Apprentice
Employment Law, the City Council
shall review the percentage Resident,
Apprentice, and Low-Income Persons
requirements, to determine the appropriateness of each percentage and
make relevant findings of that determination, and if necessary, amend
division (a) of Section 188.02 and/or
division (a) of Section 188.021.
Section 188.08 Effective Date
This chapter shall be effective and
be in force on its passage and
approval as of January 1, 2004. Any
Amendment to this chapter shall
become effective and be in force on its
passage, or as the amendment may
otherwise provide.
Section 2. That the following existing Sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:

600

April 17, 2013
Sections 188.01 and 188.02, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1056-10,
passed October 25, 2010,
Sections 188.03 and 188.04, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003,
Section 188.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1056-10, passed October 25,
2010, and
Sections 188.06, 188.07, and 188.08, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003,
are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 188.021 to read as follows:
Section 188.021 Employment of
Apprentices
(a) Where not otherwise prohibited
by federal, state, or local law or the
terms of federal or state grants, every
Major Project Construction Contract
shall:
(1) require that one or more Residents, including Apprentices, perform
25% of the total Construction Worker
Hours (“Resident Construction Worker Hours”) performed under the Major
Project Construction Contract;
(2) require that one or more
Apprentices perform 5% of the total
Construction
Worker
Hours
(“Apprentice Construction Worker
Hours”) required under the Major
Project Construction Contract as part
of the 25% Resident Construction
Worker Hours requirement;
(3) state the penalties set forth in
Section 188.05 for failure to meet the
requirement of divisions (a)(1) and
(2) of this section; and
(4) require the contractor and its
Subcontractors to use significant
efforts to ensure that no less than 4%
of the Resident Construction Worker
Hours required by this division are
performed by Low-Income Persons.
The contractor may also count some
or all of its Apprentice Construction
Worker Hours, as defined in division
(a)(2) of this section, as Resident
Construction Worker Hours performed by Low-Income Persons, provided that the Apprentice(s) performing those hours are Low-Income Persons as defined in division (i) of Section 188.01.
On submission of documentary
proof of the hours satisfactory to the
Director, a Contractor may include in
its Resident Construction Worker
Hours the hours worked for the Contractor or its Subcontractors by Residents who are Skilled and Unskilled
Construction Trade Workers, and in
its Apprentice Construction Worker
Hours the hours worked for the Contractor or its Subcontractors by
Apprentices, on projects that are not
under a City Construction Contract,
between the dates that work under
the City Construction Contract begins
and ends. A Contractor may also
include in its Resident Construction
Worker Hours and in its Apprentice
Construction Workers Hours the
hours worked by Residents who are
graduates of established, bona fide
pre-apprenticeship
programs
approved by the Residency Construction Advisory Committee, including,
but not limited to, the Bricklayers &
Allied Crafts Pre-apprenticeship program, Cement Masons Pre-apprenticeship program, or the Union Construction Industry Partnership-Apprenticeship Skill Achievement Program
(“UCIP-ASAP”), or who are otherwise
Apprentices.
(b) The percentage levels set forth
in division (a) of this Section 188.021

April 17, 2013
are intended as minimum requirements for use of Residents and
Apprentices under Major Project Construction Contracts and shall not be
construed as limiting or deferring the
full use of Residents or Apprentices
beyond this numerical level.
(c) Before the commencement of
work, each Contractor and Subcontractor shall, if requested by the
Director, complete and submit to the
Director a work-force table. The table
shall identify the estimated workforce requirements for the duration of
the job, broken down by trade and
month. The Contractor or Subcontractor shall revise the table as required,
but not less than once a month.
Section 4. That the existing title to
Chapter 188 of the Codified Ordinances is changed to read “Fannie M.
Lewis
Cleveland
Resident
and
Apprentice Employment Law”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 534-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Public Works
and Finance to enter into one or
more contracts with the Cleveland
Metropolitan School District to conduct
recreational,
cultural,
and
extracurricular programs for the
benefit of school children during the
2012-13 school year.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995, tax
revenues from levying the parking
facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admission tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural, and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2012-13
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports, and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Public Works and Finance are
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct
various recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs for the
benefit of City school children during the 2012-13 school year, under
the program description contained
in File No. 534-13-A. The cost of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
not

The City Record
exceed $1,000,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 11 SF 035, Request
No. RQS 7001, RL 2013-20.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks. Properties, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 535-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to execute a release
of covenant and deed restrictions on
property located at 1708 Southpoint
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio and known
as the Hoover Pavilion in exchange
for an agreement from MetroHealth
to maintain and expand its commitment to mentally ill persons, and to
receive, treat and care for the mentally ill at two City-owned Health
Centers and on-site at its main campus and at other MetroHealth locations in the City of Cleveland; and
to authorize the Director of Public
Health to enter into leases with
MetroHealth to provide medical services at the Thomas McCafferty and
J. Glen Smith Health Centers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 555-06, passed February 25, 1946, the City executed and
delivered an Official Deed to the
State of Ohio transferring to the
State the premises located at 1708
Southpoint Drive, Cleveland, Ohio,
known as the Hoover Pavilion (the
“Hoover Pavilion Deed”); and
Whereas,
the
Hoover
Pavilion
Deed
contained
a
restrictive
covenant and reversionary clause
(deed restriction), stating that the
grantee (State of Ohio) “shall operate the premises for the reception,
treatment, and care of the mentally
ill,” and that the Hoover Pavilion
should revert back to the City of
Cleveland if the State fails to maintain such operations for the mentally ill. The deed was recorded in the
Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office
on February 19, 1962 in Volume
10350, Page 563 of the Cuyahoga
County Records (AFN# 00574744);
and
Whereas, until very recently, the
Northcoast Behavioral Psychiatric
Center building was operating on
the Hoover Pavilion property and
was used by the Northcoast Behavioral Health Center as a treatment
center for the mentally ill; and
Whereas, the State of Ohio intends
to transfer the Hoover Pavilion
property to The MetroHealth System
(“MetroHealth”); and
Whereas, MetroHealth intends to
demolish
the
former
Northcoast
Behavioral Psychiatric Center building as part of its plan to redevelop
the hospital campus which includes
the Hoover Pavilion property where
it will continue to provide medical
services including the treatment of
the mentally ill; and
Whereas, in order to redevelop the
hospital campus, MetroHealth has
requested that the City of Cleveland
remove the Deed Restriction; and

601

9
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has agreed to remove the Deed
Restriction in return for MetroHealth agreeing to:
1. enter into two, 15 (fifteen) year
Lease By Way of Concession agreements with the City of Cleveland to
provide medical services at the
Thomas McCafferty and J. Glen Smith
Health Centers, such on-site services
shall include without limitation:
Adult Medicine, Pediatric & Family
Practice Care, OB/GYN Services, Mental Health Services, Financial Counseling, Asthma Clinic, Cardiology,
WIC, Nutrition, Bilingual Services,
Social Work, Pride Clinic, Healthy
Start Applications and expanded
evening and weekend coverage;
2. maintain specialty care access
and financial counseling assistance,
as well as reduced wait times for specialty care appointments for patients
referred from the City’s Health Centers; and
3. enter into a binding agreement
with the City to maintain and expand
its commitment to mentally ill persons, and to receive, treat, and care
for the mentally ill at the City’s
Health Centers and on-site at its main
campus and at other MetroHealth
locations in the City of Cleveland, for
a period of at least fifteen (15) years
from the date the City of Cleveland
removes the Deed Restriction; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, prior to the
release of the Deed Restriction, the
Director of Public Health shall enter
into an agreement with MetroHealth
where MetroHealth agrees to (a)
enter into two, 15 (fifteen) year
Lease By Way of Concession agreements with the City of Cleveland to
provide medical services at the
Thomas McCafferty and J. Glen
Smith Health Centers, such on-site
services shall include without limitation: Adult Medicine, Pediatric &
Family Practice Care, OB/GYN Services,
Mental
Health
Services,
Financial Counseling, Asthma Clinic, Cardiology, WIC, Nutrition, Bilingual Services, Social Work, Pride
Clinic, Healthy Start Applications
and expanded evening and weekend
coverage; (b) maintain specialty
care access and financial counseling
assistance, as well as reduced wait
times for specialty care appointments for patients referred from the
City’s Health Centers; and (c) maintain and expand its commitment to
mentally ill persons, and to receive,
treat, and care for the mentally ill
at the City’s Health Centers and onsite at its main campus and at other
MetroHealth locations in the City of
Cleveland, for a period of at least
fifteen (15) years from the date the
City of Cleveland releases the Deed
Restriction.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and the Mayor shall execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland
a Release of Covenant and Deed
Restrictions for the property located
on 1708 Southpoint Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio, formerly known as the Hoover
Pavilion and more fully described as:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.

The City Record

10
73 and being known as part of the
City Hospital site, so-called, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the northerly line of
the East View Addition of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lots
Nos. 66 and 73, recorded in Volume 16,
Page 19, of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, at its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot No. 18 in said
East View Addition; thence in a direct
extension of said westerly line of
Sublot No. 18 North 262.37 feet to the
southerly line of an existing passageway or tunnel; thence South 76 ° 50’
00” East 415.12 feet; thence South 13°
10’ 00” West 172.35 feet to the northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 27 in said
East View addition 365 feet, more or
less, to the place of beginning.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Health is
authorized to lease by way of concession to MetroHealth, or its designee

(“Lessee”), certain property, which is
suitable for lease by another party for
public use, known as the Thomas
McCafferty Health Center located at
4242 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
444113 and J. Glen Smith Health Center located at 11100 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108.
Section 4. That the term of the leases authorized by this ordinance shall
be 15 years.
Section 5. That the Thomas McCafferty and J. Glen Smith Health Center
properties authorized by this ordinance shall be leased at no rent in
exchange for Lessee providing medical services as described in Section 1
to the citizens of Cleveland through
the use of a sliding scale for payment
based on the patient’s ability to pay,
and such other terms as are agreed to
by the Director of Public Health,
which is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 6. That the leases may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises

April 17, 2013
at no cost to the City subject to the
approval of appropriate City agencies
and officials.
Section 7. That the leases shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the leases
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 536-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 51 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 668-12, passed May 7, 2012, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 51 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 66812, passed May 7, 2012, shall be amended as follows:
Section 51. Housing Court Employees
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Chief Housing
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court

Court Specialist .............................................
Administrative Assistant...........................
Administrator.................................................
ADR Specialist ..............................................
Chief Bailiff ...................................................
Chief Magistrate...........................................
Coordinator .....................................................
Court Reporter ..............................................
Deputy Bailiff ...............................................
Deputy Bailiff – Uniformed .....................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor.........................
Deputy Bailiff/Finance Officer ..............
Deputy Bailiff/Judicial Clerk .................
Deputy Bailiff/Staff Attorney.................
Magistrate .......................................................
Magistrates’ Personal Bailiff ..................
Personal Bailiff ............................................
Project Coordinator .....................................
Receptionist....................................................
Scheduler .........................................................
Secretary..........................................................
Specialist .........................................................
Specialist - Mediation Coordinator ......
Student Aide ..................................................

Minimum
$52,158.83
23,063.94
64,815.84
42,178.00
38,884.00
71,667.00
23,064.00
23,715.99
22,173.84
22,173.84
42,815.88
38,544.06
21,993.75
29,585.00
42,178.32
23,063.94
63,969.00
31,050.00
23,064.00
23,063.94
20,815.92
34,000.00
29,585.48
10.30

Maximum
$86,233.74
54,990.00
96,917.89
84,012.07
88,026.00
116,982.00
52,418.10
58,166.16
54,367.68
54,367.68
69,786.54
70,048.00
50,839.15
69,902.23
91,529.00
51,104.81
88,389.00
67,369.91
35,083.94
51,104.81
38,151.00
69,000.00
58,781.03
10.30

Section 2. That existing Section 51 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No.
668-12, passed May 7, 2012, shall be repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

602

April 17, 2013
Ord. No. 537-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$11,100,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities
for the discharge of governmental
functions or for services otherwise
benefiting public safety, health and
welfare
and
authorizing
related
matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eleven
Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($11,100,000) (the “Series 2013
Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1; and
Whereas, the Series 2013 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and 
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Series 2013
Bonds is at least five (5) years and
the maximum maturity of the Series
2013 Bonds is ten (10) years, as evidenced by the certificate contained
in File No.  537-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
that are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Series 2013
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Elven Million
One
Hundred
Thousand
Dollars
($11,100,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities
for the discharge of governmental
functions or for services otherwise
benefiting the public safety, health
and welfare, including constructing,
reconstructing,
rehabilitating,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging
and otherwise improving buildings,
structures and other facilities in, of
and for City Hall, police stations,
fire stations, emergency medical
centers, service stations, waste collection, transfer and disposal facilities, correctional facilities, health
facilities, centers and other facilities, the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, information technology hardware and
software,
utilities,
site
improvements and appurtenances, and to
pay any capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the securities,
including all financing costs within
the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of
the Revised Code and such other
costs of the foregoing permanent
improvements that may be financed
with the proceeds of securities as

The City Record
permitted by Section 133.15(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”) and one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or

603

11
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013
Bonds. The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2013 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2013 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the
Fourth Supplement identified in Section 7. The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
designated
“Public
Facilities
Improvement Bonds, Series 2013” and
may contain such further designation
as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Series 2013 Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
whole multiple thereof. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Series 2013 Bonds shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2013
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2013 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2013 Bonds shall not exceed
six per cent (6.00%) per year. Interest
on the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1, or such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the
“Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
no later than August  1, 2024. The
Series 2013 Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as serial
Series 2013 Bonds or as term Series
2013 Bonds payable prior to stated
maturity pursuant to sinking fund
redemption (the “Term Bonds”). The
Director of Finance shall determine
in the Certificate of Award whether
any of the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013

12
Bonds are issued as Term Series 2013
Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to the
redemption date, on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates. The aggregate of
the moneys to be deposited with the
Trustee for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fourth Supplement).
The Series 2013 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2013 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fourth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2013
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2013
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013 Bonds.
The Series 2013 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2013
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2013 Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2013 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section
1), the purchase price (which shall be
not less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to their
date of delivery), interest rate or

The City Record
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2013 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2013 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2013 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2013 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fourth Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any

604

April 17, 2013
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2013 Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fourth Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2013
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013 Bonds, defeasance
of the Series 2013 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Fourth Supplement shall be
approved as to form by the Director of
Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that the provisions of
the Fourth Supplement are not substantially adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of the Fourth Supplement. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and
Fourth Supplement as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Series 2013 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eleven Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($11,100,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance to
be set forth in a certificate providing
for the final terms of the Notes and
the sale of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”). The Notes, if sold as
fixed rate obligations, shall bear
interest at such rate, not exceeding
three percent (3.00%) per year, and
shall be payable on the date or dates,
as shall be determined by the Director
of Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior to
maturity without penalty, unless the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, that the Notes
not be redeemable prior to maturity or
that a premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be

April 17, 2013
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess
of
twenty-five
percent
(25.00%) per year. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2013 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2013 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supple-

The City Record
ments approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2013 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2013 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Series 2013
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i)  the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds

605

13
to be and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(iii) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (A)
apply the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purpose of
the borrowing, (B) restrict the yield
on investment property, (C) make
timely and adequate payments to the
federal government, (D) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports and (E)  refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds and
any Notes is hereby authorized (i) to
make or effect any election, selection,
designation,
choice,
consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Series 2013
Bonds and any Notes as the City is
permitted to or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections available
under Section 148 of the Code, for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment or
tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes or interest thereon, or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (ii) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2013
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating

14
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2013 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2013 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of

The City Record
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2013 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2013 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 538-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$6,100,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($6,100,000)
(the
“Series
2013
Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1; and

606

April 17, 2013
Whereas, the Series 2013 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and 
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Series 2013
Bonds is at least five (5) years and
the maximum maturity of the Series
2013 Bonds is seventeen (17) years,
as evidenced by the certificate contained in File No. 538-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
that are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Series 2013
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Six Million
One
Hundred
Thousand
Dollars
($6,100,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities by
constructing, reconstructing, rehainstalling,
renovating,
bilitating,
enlarging and otherwise improving
parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, tracks, fields and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement and facilities, and providing
necessary
water
systems,
drainage, lighting, signage, fixtures,
furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site improvements,
together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances and the acquisition of any required real estate
and interests in real estate and the
demolition of any existing buildings,
structures,
walkways
and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.

April 17, 2013
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”) and one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013
Bonds. The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2013 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2013 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depos-

The City Record
itory or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the
Fourth Supplement identified in Section 7. The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
designated “Parks and Recreation
Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series
2013” and may contain such further
designation as provided in the Certificate of Award identified below. The
Series 2013 Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Series 2013
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any whole multiple thereof. The
Series 2013 Bonds shall be numbered
as determined by the Director of
Finance. The Series 2013 Bonds shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2013
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2013 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2013 Bonds shall not exceed
six per cent (6.00%) per year. Interest
on the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1, or such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the
“Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
no later than August  1, 2031. The
Series 2013 Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as serial
Series 2013 Bonds or as term Series
2013 Bonds payable prior to stated
maturity pursuant to sinking fund
redemption (the “Term Bonds”). The
Director of Finance shall determine
in the Certificate of Award whether
any of the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013
Bonds are issued as Term Series 2013
Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to the
redemption date, on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates. The aggregate of
the moneys to be deposited with the
Trustee for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fourth Supplement).

607

15
The Series 2013 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2013 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fourth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2013
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2013
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013 Bonds.
The Series 2013 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2013
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2013 Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2013 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section
1), the purchase price (which shall be
not less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to their
date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2013 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2013 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and

16
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2013 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2013 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fourth Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2013 Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fourth Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2013
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013 Bonds, defeasance

The City Record
of the Series 2013 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Fourth Supplement shall be
approved as to form by the Director of
Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that the provisions of
the Fourth Supplement are not substantially adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of the Fourth Supplement. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and
Fourth Supplement as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Series 2013 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Six Million
One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($6,100,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance to
be set forth in a certificate providing
for the final terms of the Notes and
the sale of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”). The Notes, if sold as
fixed rate obligations, shall bear
interest at such rate, not exceeding
three percent (3.00%) per year, and
shall be payable on the date or dates,
as shall be determined by the Director
of Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior to
maturity without penalty, unless the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, that the Notes
not be redeemable prior to maturity or
that a premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes” or as otherwise provided in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system). The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983 of the Revised Code
shall apply to the Notes and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Notes to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest to
be borne by the variable rate Notes
shall be determined; provided that the
variable rate Notes shall not bear

608

April 17, 2013
interest at a rate in excess of twentyfive percent (25.00%) per year. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into agreements in connection
with the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2013 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2013 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.

April 17, 2013
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2013 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2013 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Series 2013
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i)  the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
to be and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(iii) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (A)
apply the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purpose of
the borrowing, (B) restrict the yield
on investment property, (C) make
timely and adequate payments to the
federal government, (D) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports and (E)  refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.

The City Record
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds and
any Notes is hereby authorized (i) to
make or effect any election, selection,
designation,
choice,
consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Series 2013
Bonds and any Notes as the City is
permitted to or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections available
under Section 148 of the Code, for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment or
tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes or interest thereon, or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (ii) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2013
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.

609

17
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2013 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2013 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants

18
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2013 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2013 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 540-13.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to name
the baseball diamond at Halloran
Park the Margaret M. Sweeney
(Marge) Baseball Diamond.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the baseball diamond at Halloran Park shall be
named the Margaret M. Sweeney
(Marge) Baseball Diamond, and that
the Director of Public Works is
authorized and directed to take the
necessary action to affect said naming and to post the proper signs at
said baseball diamond.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 541-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Vemel Whalen Way as a
secondary name to Glendale Avenue
between Wendy Drive and East
131st Street and repealing Ordinance
No. 514-13 passed April 8, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Vemel Whalen Way
shall be added as a secondary name
to Glendale Avenue between Wendy
Drive and East 131st Street.
Section 2. That Ordinance No. 51413, passed April 8, 2013 is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 542-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting Northeast Ohio hospitals and
Ohioans in urging the Ohio General
Assembly to include the expansion
of Medicaid eligibility in their proposed budget bill for the health and
economic benefit of all Ohioans.
Whereas, this Council passed a
resolution on March 25, 2013 urging
Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to propose and pass
a budget that expands Medicaid eligibility in Ohio; and
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly has a unique opportunity to
expand Medicaid eligibility to cover
people making up to 138% of the
federal
poverty
level,
which
is
$15,420 for an individual or $26,352
for a family of three; and
Whereas,
such
an
expansion
would be supported by generous federal
funding
levels
that
have
already been set aside for that purpose under the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act (ACA),
including an average of 95% of the
expansion cost through 2019; and
Whereas, Governor Kasich included the expansion of Medicaid eligibility in his budget, and strongly
supports the expansion, but last
week Republicans in the Ohio House
of Representatives introduced a substitute budget that stripped out Medicaid expansion; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio hospitals, including the Cleveland Clinic,
University
Hospitals,
Sisters
of
Charity Health System and others,
along with the business community
and concerned Ohioans, are working

610

April 17, 2013
to
convince
lawmakers
that
Ohioans’ lives and the economy are
at stake; and
Whereas, Ohio hospitals will lose
millions of dollars in federal funding currently used to treat uninsured patients and provide free care
that was supposed to be replaced by
Medicaid expansion; and
Whereas, if Ohio does not expand
Medicaid eligibility, local hospitals
that rely on decreasing Medicaid
uncompensated care dollars to help
them treat the uninsured will be atrisk of decreasing treatment or closing their doors; and
Whereas, many Ohioans who will
qualify for expanded Medicaid are
the working poor, not necessarily
the unemployed; Governor Kasich’s
office estimates that about 45 percent of those who will qualify for
coverage
under
the
expansion
statewide have jobs; and
Consumers
for
Whereas,
Ohio
Health Coverage states that if Ohio
expands
Medicaid
eligibility,
at
least 600,000 low-income working
Ohioans who are currently uninsured will have access to health
care through Ohio’s Medicaid managed care plans, and seek more preventive care with better health outcomes as a result; and
Whereas, the nonpartisan Health
Policy Institute of Ohio’s countylevel study projects that in Cuyahoga County, about 46,000 uninsured
residents ages 19 to 64 would gain
coverage through Medicaid if expansion occurs; and
Whereas, in addition to health
benefits, expanding Medicaid eligibility will help our economy with an
investment of $20 billion in federal
Medicaid dollars during the years
2014 through 2019 to pay for the
expansion; and
Whereas,
this
investment
will
stimulate the Ohio economy by
going directly into our health care
system, to hospitals, and doctors,
and other providers, and creating
additional jobs, attracting additional businesses, and raising state revenue through income and other
taxes; and
Whereas, larger urban areas like
Northeast Ohio may see as many as
4,300 new jobs, and because of the
higher employment, Cuyahoga County is projected to net an additional
$9 million in additional sales tax
revenues from Medicaid managed
care plans as well as general sales
tax, according to the Health Policy
Institute report; and
Whereas,
The
Ohio
Medicaid
Expansion Study found that expanding Medicaid eligibility would allow
$1.6 billion in state budget savings
during state fiscal years 2014-2022,
because certain categories of current Medicaid spending would qualify for higher federal matching
rates, letting the state reduce its
spending; also, non-Medicaid spending on health care for the poor and
near-poor
uninsured
would
be
replaced by federal Medicaid dollars, allowing a reduction in state
general fund spending; and
Whereas,
expanding
Medicaid
would generate between 2.7 billion
and 2.8 billion in state revenue during state fiscal years 2014-2022 thorough 1) increased state’s managed
care sales and insurance tax revenue from increased enrollment; 2)
increased state’s receipt of rebates

April 17, 2013
from drug manufacturers covering
more Medicaid prescription drug
customers, and finally; 3) resulting
economic activity from the Ohio
health industry and businesses generating sales and income tax revenue; and
Whereas, an estimated $1.8 to 1.9
billion in net state budget gains
over this nine-year period studied by
The Ohio Medicaid Expansion Study
could be redirected to other priorities, including tax relief or education funding; and
Whereas, a Medicaid expansion
would affect Ohio residents during
2022, the final year studied, by
reducing the number of uninsured
Ohio residents by more than 450,000,
creating more than 27,000 Ohio jobs,
reducing health care costs for Ohio
employers and residents by $285 million and $1.1 billion, respectively,
and generating significant savings
and revenues for Ohio counties; and
Whereas,
without
a
Medicaid
expansion, the ACA would create
small, net budget losses during the
state fiscal years 2014-2022 period as
a whole; policymakers would need
to add the Medicaid expansion to
the remainder of the ACA for the
federal legislation to yield net state
budget gains; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Northeast Ohio hospitals and
Ohioans in urging the Ohio General
Assembly to include the expansion of
Medicaid eligibility in their proposed
budget bill for the health and economic benefit of all Ohioans.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich,
the Ohio General Assembly, Dr. David
Bronson, the Cleveland Clinic, Heidi
Garland, University Hospitals, and
Robin Bachman, Sisters of Charity
Health System.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 549-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 15707 St. Clair
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 31-13, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 15707 St.
Clair AVenue by Resolution No. 3113 adopted by the Council on January 7, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit,
based upon a cooperation agreement
between Councilmember Michael D.

The City Record
Polensek and Applicant William C.
Bass, CEO; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General, #13729,
15707 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
2234815-1420, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 3113, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 550-13.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-5355 Dolloff Road and
repealing Resolution No. 1026-12,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Your Place & Mine,
LLC, DBA Your Place & Mine, 53515355 Dolloff Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44127, Permanent Number 9862110 by
Resolution No. 1026-12, adopted by
the Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Your Place & Mine,
LLC, DBA Your Place & Mine, 53515355 Dolloff Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44127, Permanent Number 9862110, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1026-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

611

19
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1659-12.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 403.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.672-12
passed June 4, 2012, relating to Traffic Code Misdemeanor Classifications
and Penalties.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 167-13.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Polensek, Brancatelli, Dow, Cummins, Westbrook, Keane, K. Johnson, Cleveland and Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 605.11, 621.03, and 623.10 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to offenses
and misconduct involving a public
transportation system and against a
public transportation worker.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert: “; and to further amend Section 623.10 to prohibit spray painting waste containers
and noise walls.”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
605.11(e),
line
2,
strike
“(RC
2917.41)”; and in 605.11(h), line 1,
strike “divisions (a), (b), (c), (d) or
(e)” and insert “division (c)”.
3. In Section 1, at amended Section
605.11, insert new division (i) to
read as follows:
“(i)
Whoever violates division
(a), (b), (d), or (e) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.”.
4. In Section 1, at amended Section
623.10(a)(2), line 2, after “waste containers” insert a comma.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 366-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design and distribute
utility bills, inserts, reminders, and
delinquent notices, and to provide
various services related to bill printing and mailing services, including
but not limited to on-line bill payment and presentment services, for
the Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power for a period up
to three years, with two options to
renew for additional one year periods, the first of which is exercisable

The City Record

20
through
additional
legislative
authority.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 2.
Those voting yea:
Council Members Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney and
Westbrook.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brancatelli and Zone.
Absent: Council Member Cummins.
Ord. No. 431-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Youth Opportunities Unlimited for
the administration, implementation,
and management of the Cleveland
Youth Summer Employment Program
and authorizing one or more contracts
with public agencies to implement the
Youth Summer Employment Program, for a period of one year, with
one option to renew for an additional
one year period, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the absence of Council Member Brian J. Cummins is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Polensek.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:10 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
22, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Interim
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 160-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
272-09, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 20, 2009,
Recess Creative, LLC is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to provide professional consulting services for the Cleveland
Division
of
Water
Website
Redesign, which requires services
such as designing, developing, and
implementing
recommendations;
integrating, converting, and migrating data; developing content; and
training,
maintenance,
providing
technical support, project management, and other related services necessary to implement the upgrade
and redesign of the existing internet site, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Recess Creative, LLC based upon its
proposal dated, March 8, 2013, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
furnishing of professional services
described in the proposal, for an
aggregate
fee
not
exceeding
$109,700.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Recess Creative, LLC
for the above-mentioned professional services is approved:
SUBCONSULTANTS

Allan Dreyer
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 10, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 10, 2013
at 10:43 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.

April 17, 2013

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Quez Media Marketing
(CSB/MBE/LPE)

$10,970.00
10%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 161-13.
By Director Wasik.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 663-12, passed by
Cleveland City Council on June 4,
2012, and Board of Control Resolution No. 366-12, adopted July 25, 2012,
the City, through its Director of Capital Projects, entered into Contract
No. PI2012*37 with Perk Company,
Inc. for the public improvement of
Flats East Bank Roadway Enhancements (Main Avenue, West 9th

612

Street, West Lakeside Avenue), for
the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects; and
Whereas,
Perk
Company,
Inc.
wishes to amend the participation
of
certain
previously
amounts
approved subcontractors for the project and to engage additional subcontractors; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 366-12, adopted July
25, 2012, is amended by revising the
participation amounts attributed to
the subcontractors approved in the
resolution to the following:
Tech Ready Mix, Inc.
(CSB/MBE) — $199,037.50(9.52%)
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $39,679.35(1.90%)
Trafftech, Inc.
(CSB) — $56,292.10(2.69%)
Cordova Enterprises LLC,
dba CorStone, Ltd.
(CSB/MBE/FBE) —
$180,141.00(8.62%)
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 366-12
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Perk Company, Inc.
under Contract No. PI2012*37 for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
Royal Landscape-Gardening, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $93,225.00 (4.46%)
Eclipse Co LLC.
(CSB/FBE) — $83,926.00 (4.01%)
Barbicas Construction Company, Inc.
(other) — $233,340.25(11.16%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 162-13.
By Directors Cox and Dumas.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 236-13,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on March 18, 2013, authorizes the Director of Public Works
and the Director of Finance to
employ by contract one or more temporary employment agency or agencies, to provide temporary and seasonal personnel for various programs for the Director of Public
Works and the Director of Finance
for a period up to one year; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under the authority of Ordinance No. 236-13, passed by Council
of the City of Cleveland on March
18, 2013, Snider Blake Business Service, Inc. is selected upon nomination of the Director of Public Works
and the Director of Finance from a
list of firms determined after a full
and complete canvass as the temporary
employment
agency
to
be
employed by contract for the purpose of supplementing regularly
employed staff of several depart-

The City Record

April 17, 2013
ments of the City of Cleveland to
perform the professional services
necessary to supply temporary and
seasonal personnel for the Department of Public Works, the Project
Clean Program, and the Department
of Finance.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works and Director of Finance are authorized to
enter into a written contract or contracts with Snider Blake Business
Service, Inc. (“Agency”), based on
its January 25, 2013 proposal, to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for seasonal programs for Director of Public Works and Director of
Finance during the 12-month period
beginning upon execution of a contract, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as that Director considers necessary to benefit and protect the
interest. The fees for services to be
under
the
contracts
performed
authorized,
as
stated
in
the
Agency’s
proposal,
including
charges for drug testing and criminal background checks shall be:
POSITIONS SUPPLIED
Department of
Public Works
Park
Maintenance
Aides
Project
Clean
Aides

Seasonal
Supervisors

FEE

$12.33 per hour and,
if the City’s Fair
Employment Living
Wage increases, an
amount
equal
to
123.6% of the Fair
Employment Wage
determined
under
Section
189.02
of
the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976
(‘C.O.’)
$12.64 per hour and,
if the City’s Fair
Employment Living
Wage increases, an
amount
equal
to
123.6% of the Fair
Employment Wage,
determined
under
Section 189.02 C.O.,
plus $0.25 per hour.

POSITIONS SUPPLIED

FEE

Department of
Finance
The fee for each position for all
temporary and seasonal personnel
required for the Director of Finance
over the course of the contract shall
be determined for each position individually by applying an amount
equal to 123.6% of the wage determined for that occupation by the
Bureau of Wage Statistics’ current
published Metropolitan and Nonmetropolitan
Area
Occupational
Employment and Wage Estimates
for Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor OH, but
in no event shall be less than an
amount equal to 123.6% of the Fair
Wage
determined
under
Section
189.02 C.O.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors is approved:
NAME

DOLLAR AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

New Management, Inc.
CSB/MBE

$2,000,000.00
47.619%

21

Employment Specialists
International, Inc.
$ 750,000.00
0.00%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 163-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, MVP Valet Services,
LLC has proposed to offer valet
parking services to the general public for various events to be held at
Cleveland
Public
Auditorium
by
using the Willard Park Garage;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with MVP Valet
Services, LLC to use Willard Park
Garage to offer valet parking services to the public for the following
events to be held at the Cleveland
Public Auditorium on the listed
dates, for a fee per event of $450.00
plus $5.00 per vehicle parked:
EVENT

DATE

United Way Women’s
Leadership Council’s
Rock the Catwalk
April 11, 2013
Cleveland Clinic’s
Heart Throb Ball

May 3, 2013

Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame Annual Benefit
Ceremony
May 11, 2013
The concession agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 164-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 250-12,
adopted on June 6, 2012, under the
authority of Section 131.15(f) of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, this Board of Control
established the rental rates for the
Cleveland Public Auditorium, its
various rooms, halls, and portions
thereof; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will sponsor Senior Day 2013 to be
held on May 21, 2013; and
Whereas, Senior Day 2013 is open
to the public free of charge; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that notwithstanding and as an

613

exception to the terms of Resolution
No. 250-12, adopted by this Board of
Control on June 6, 2012, the use of
the space at Cleveland Public Auditorium for Senior Day 2013 shall be
provided at no charge.
Be it further resolved that the
Cleveland Public Auditorium shall
charge the Department of Aging at
the prevailing rate for any labor,
materials, and equipment supplied.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
Resolution No. 165-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 008-07-051 located at 3114 West
16th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Elizzabeth Schiros has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Elizzabeth Schiros for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
008-07-051
located at 3114 West 16th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Rush.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record

22
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-44: 3682 East 131st
Street (Ward 4)
Wilson Fisher, Jr. appeals under
Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) from being denied an
application for a Motor Vehicle
Repair Garage License by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses upon the recommendation
of the City of Cleveland Department
of Building and Housing.
Calendar No. 13-47: 806 Literary
Avenue (Ward 3)
Sandy Banks LLC, owner, appeal
for use of an outdoor patio area and
apparent construction of patio walls
on an irregular shaped parcel in a
C1 General Retail Business District
and:
(a) subject to Sections 349.04(f)
accessory off-street parking for a
bar/restaurant is required at the
rate of one for each employee, plus
one for each 100 square feet of
patron space floor area or one for
four
seats,
whichever
is
each
greater, a patio area of 2,310 square
feet requires 24 additional off-street
parking spaces;
(b) under the provisions in Section 349.02 in all use districts, existing off-street parking facilities shall
not voluntarily be reduced below the
requirements of Chapter 349 in the
Cleveland Code of Ordinances;
(c) and in accordance with provisions under Section 327.02(d) before

any permit or certificate of occupancy is issued, the Commissioner of
Building and Housing shall examine
plans and a plot plan to ascertain
whether the proposed work and use
will conform to the Zoning Code and
plan details for apparent new patio
construction of patio walls have not
been provided and are required to
ascertain conformance to the Zoning
Code;
(d) the expansion of nonconforming use requires the Board of Zoning Appeals approval; and a variance was granted for a deficiency
in parking and required landscaping
in Calendar No. 01-284 for a parking
lot site.
Calendar No. 13-53: 16003 Saranac
Road (Ward 11)
Joan Anger appeals under Section
76-6 of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d)
from being denied an application for
a Motor Vehicle Repair Garage
License by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses upon the
recommendation
of
the
City
of
Cleveland Department of Building
and Housing.
Calendar No. 13-54: 1261 West 76th
Street (Ward 15)
Gillespie Brothers Ltd., owner,
appeal for use and Certificate of
Occupancy as a bar with entertainment, an outdoor patio and canopy
on a 40' x 110.02' corner lot located
in a Planned Unit Development
(PUD) Overlay District within a G3
Multi-Family District; subject to the
provisions in Section 334.13, after
completion of initial construction, no
Building Permit or Certificate of
Occupancy shall be issued for any
lot within a development or any
phase thereof for which a Site Plan
has been approved under Section
334.04 or division (b) of Section
334.05 unless one of the following
applies:
(a) the application for a Building
Permit or Certificate of Occupancy
conforms to the approved Final Site
Plan;
(b) the application conforms to all
regulations applicable to properties
for which a Site Plan has not been
approved and is also generally consistent, in the judgment of the
Director, with the approved Site
Plan; or
(c) an amendment to the approved
Site Plan is approved under Section
334.10 to allow the action for which
the Permit or Certificate is sought;
or
(d) for Permits or Certificates
affecting a single lot of less than
one quarter acre containing less
than five thousand square feet of
gross floor area, a Variance from
the Site Plan or the regulations of
this Code has been approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
Contrary to Section 337.08 the proposed use for a bar with entertainment and outdoor patio are not permitted and first allowed in a General Retail Business district; and
pursuant to Section 349.04(e), a
parking area in the amount of three
times the gross floor/patio area is
required under the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-55: 8200 Bessemer
Avenue (Ward 5)
Sidakco Bessemer I, LLC, owner,
appeals to install 10-foot high electrified fence around the perimeter of

614

April 17, 2013
irregular shaped acreage located in
a B3 General Industry District, contrary to Section 358.05(a)(1) that
limits fences in actual front yards
to a 6-foot height in General and
Unrestricted Industry Districts; and
pursuant to Section 358.02(e) in the
Cleveland Code of Ordinances, the
term “actual front yard” shall refer
to the entire lot area between a
main building and the corresponding lot line.
Calendar No. 13-56: 6100 Truscon
Avenue (Ward )
Truscon
Realty,
LLC,
owner,
appeals to install 10-foot high electrified fence around the perimeter of
irregular shaped acreage located in
a B3 General Industry District, contrary to Section 358.05(a)(1) that
limits fences in actual front yards
to a 6-foot height in General and
Unrestricted Industry Districts; and
pursuant to Section 358.02(e) in the
Cleveland Code of Ordinances, the
term “actual front yard” shall refer
to the entire lot area between a
main building and the corresponding lot line.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 15,
2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-41: 3250 West 117th
Street
Abdul Assad appealed to establish
use for used car sales and car wash
in a C1 General Retail Business District; subject to revised plan.
Calendar No. 13-45: 3952 West 140th
Street
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appealed to erect a new school
on acreage in an A1 One-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-21: 3702 Oak Park
Avenue
Marcello
Silvestri
appealed
to
erect a 13' x 30' one-story frame
accessory garage to an existing
garage in an A1 One-Family District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 13-18: 6114 Francis
Avenue
aka 2969 East 61st Street
Elizabeth
Baptist
Church
appealed to use for a group home, a
homeless shelter, within a B1 TwoFamily District; subject to conditions.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-46: 1595 East 30th
Street
Philip Neshkin, owner, and Yorgl
Wu, prospective tenant, appealed to
establish an auto repair shop in an
existing building in a B1 SemiIndustry District.

The City Record

April 17, 2013
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 13-48: 2709 East 93rd
Street
Jimmy Walls dba Magic Auto
Body, Inc. appealed from being
denied an application for a renewed
Motor
Vehicle
Repair
Garage
License by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 12-220: 1170 Ivanhoe
Road postponed to May 28, 2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on April 8, 2013 were
adopted and approved on April 15,
2013:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-42: 7801 Lorain
Avenue
Loraine
Montgomery
appealed
from a decision rendered on a Civil
Infraction Ticket issued by the City
of Cleveland Waste Collection Division.
Calendar No. 12-171: 3951 Rocky
River Drive
Bethesda
Lutheran
Home
appealed for a dwelling addition
and to establish a charitable institution for assembly, activity and
office areas for job training and
daytime activities for clients in a B1
Two-Family District; subject to condition for parking agreement.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-202: 4414-20 Pearl
Road
Brian Bodach appealed to change
use from retail to four (4) residential units an existing building in a
C1 Local Retail Business District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on January 22, 2013 was
adopted and approved.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-231: 5409 Bridge
Avenue
Silverstar
Ohio
Holdings
LLC
appealed to change a one family to
a two family residence in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 10, 2013
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,

Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-4-13.
RE: Appeal of J.C. Robinson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
known
as
11914
Gay
premises
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 6, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to abate the violations; the property
is REMANDED at the end of that
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-8-13.
RE: Appeal of Shakerlan Properties, Inc., Owner of the MXD Mixed
Uses — Multiple Uses In One BuildMasonry
ing
Three
Story
Walls/Wood Floors Property and
One Story Masonry Garage Property, located on the premises known
as 12635 Larchmere Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
December 6, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to sell the building, and/or abate
the violations with the condition
that the building remain secured
and the grounds groomed during
that period of time; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-9-13.
RE: Appeal of Dorothy MarshallBarringer,
Owner
of
the
Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3587 East 139th Street,
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated November 15, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which

615

23
to present a plan and obtain all
required permits, and six (6) months
in which to abate the violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-10-13.
RE: Appeal of Lucretia Russell,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 2339 East 90th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE &
GARAGE, dated November 27, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to present a plan and obtain all
required permits and sixty (60) days
in which to abate all exterior violations; the Appellant is granted one
hundred-eighty (180) days total in
which to complete abatement of the
violations on the property in accordance with the Department of Building and Housing’s rehabilitation
plan, the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action, noting that failure to meet
any of the dates will REMAND the
property immediately. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab.
Nays:
Messrs.
Bradley,
Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-11-13.
RE: Appeal of Dana Word Sr.,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 4628 East 175th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated January 4, 2013 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for additional time,
and to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, based upon the photographic evidence of the deterioration of the property and the fact
that the Appellant was not present
for the hearing. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-12-13.
RE: Appeal of Rios Properties,
Inc., Owner of the Two Dwelling

The City Record

24
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
8512 Connecticut Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 7,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for additional time,
and to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting the lack of a
plan and the perceived lack of plans
for the property in the near future.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-13-13.
RE: Appeal of Grassroot Innovations LLC, Owner of the R-2 Residential — Non-transient; Apartments
(Shared Egress) Two Story Frame
Property and One Story Garage —
Detached; Wood Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3445 East 119th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
December 11, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to raze the property, the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-14-13.
RE: Appeal of Strongtower Christian Assembly, Owner of the R-4
Residential — Non-transient; Shared
Living Areas for 5-16 Persons Three
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property, located on the
premises known as 936 East 141st
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 17, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to submit plans to the Building
Department and an additional thirty (30) days in which to obtain permits, and to follow the judgment of
the Department of Building Department in conformance with comments
to permit the construction to proceed
from that time point; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the

Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-15-13.
RE: Appeal of Renard Parnell II,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 4333 East 142nd
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 19, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain permits and sixty (60)
days in which to complete abatement of the exterior violations, and
one hundred—eighty (180) days in
which to complete abatement of all
violations; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action, noting that failure to meet
any of the dates will REMAND the
property immediately. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-16-13.
RE: Appeal of Mary Battle, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 12309 Benham Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated December 14, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to present a plan and obtain permits
and sixty (60) days in which to complete abatement of the exterior violations,
and
one
hundred-eighty
(180) days total in which to complete abatement of all violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, noting that
failure to meet any of the dates will
REMAND the property immediately.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-17-13.
RE:
Appeal
of
Talia
Collins,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 2218 East 89th

616

April 17, 2013
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 12, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for additional time,
noting the condition of the property
and feasibility of rehabilitation; the
property REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-18-13.
RE: Appeal of Michael O’Bannon,
Owner of the Residential Property,
located on the premises known as
3834 East 151st Street from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMIT, dated
January 11, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for additional time,
and to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-19-13.
RE: Appeal of Ovidiu Sarsama,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3472 West 52nd Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
December 14, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to present a plan and obtain permits, sixty (60) days in which to
complete abatement of all exterior
violations, including the graffiti,
noting that the exterior must be
maintained during that period of
time, and one hundred—eighty (180)
days total in which to complete
abatement of all violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, noting that
failure to meet any of the dates will
REMAND the property immediately.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

The City Record

April 17, 2013
Docket A-21-13.
RE: Appeal of Marcelline Properties, Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses
— Multiple Uses In One Building
Two Story Masonry Property, located on the premises known as 4106
East 71st Street from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
December 18, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 30th, 2013 in
which to complete abatement of the
violations on the property, at that
time the property is REMANDED to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

structure within five feet, that this
property must be brought into conformance with the one foot requirements at that time. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *

of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-333-12 Cuyahoga County
A-1-13 — Shaughn Hubbard
A-2-13 — Lourdes Gonzalez
A-79-13 — Sheila Alridge

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-103-12
East 123rd Street Properties, Ltd.
— 1862 East 123rd Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant two (2)
weeks in which to apply for permits,
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Denk.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-23-13.
RE: Appeal of Don R. Blake,
Owner of the R-2 Residential — Nontransient;
Apartments
(Shared
Egress) Two & One/half Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3603 East 117th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 14, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to submit plans and obtain all
required permits and the Appellant
is granted six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations on the property in accordance
with the Department of Building
and Housing’s rehabilitation plan,
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Docket A-104-12
East 123rd Street Properties, Ltd.
— 1885 Coltman Road:
A motion is in order at this time
to DENY the request for additional
time and to REMAND the property
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Denk.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-314-12 — William Deloney
A-5-13 — Mirela Farcas
A-6-13 — Jason Hager
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *

*    *    *
Docket A-87-13.
RE: Appeal of Richard M. & Adrienne Gray Jr., Owners of the Residential Property, located on the
premises known as 2136 West 5th
Street
from
an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated March 22, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to permit the property to be
built one foot from the property line,
noting that the adjacent property is
13'-6" from the property line and
provides
the
required
distances
between the two properties, with the
provision that should the adjacent
property owner wish to build a

25

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-331-12 — International Union of
Operating Engineers
A-334-12
—
Delores
RobinsonWoods (AMENDED)
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption

617

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-335-12 — Tika Fufuka
A-338-12 — Harold Chapman
A-339-12 — Pleasant Properties
L.P.
A-342-12 — GS Real, LLC
A-3-13 — Tatyana Stupnitski
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-340-12 — Mt. Pleasant Homes III
L.P.
A-341-12 — Mt. Pleasant Homes III
L.P.
A-343-12 — Kevin & Alandré Jackson
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC):
March 27, 2013
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None..
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

The City Record

26
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, April 24, 2013
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, April 24, 2013, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 133-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands located on the southwest corner of Fulton Road and Bailey Avenue to Two
Family Residential, and a ‘1’ Height
District or a Local Retail Business
District as indicated on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2402).
Ord. No. 196-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Jonell Centre (formerly
the Garfield Savings Bank and the
Cleveland Trust Company) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 197-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church (formerly the
Morison Avenue Communal Baths)
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 316-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Craig Motor Company
Building (also known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn
Building) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 317-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 318-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance designating Villa Angela-St. Joseph High
School as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 319-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Fine Arts Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 320-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
located at Pershing and Interstate
77 to General Industry, an ‘A’ Area
District and a 3 Height District
(Map Change No. 2405).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
April 10, 2013 and April 17, 2013

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MAY 3, 2013
File
No.
65-13
—
Water
Main
Replacement On Hickory Lane in
the City of Seven Hills, Ohio, for
the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities and as
authorized by Ordinance No. 172712 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 4,
2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

618

April 17, 2013
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 66-13 — Purchase of Labor
and Materials for the Repair of
and Purchase of Repairs Parts
for
Pumps,
Saws
and
Small
Engines, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities and as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976..
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
10:30 A.M. THE DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE
PIPE
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
April 10, 2013 and April 17, 2013
WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 2013
File No. 67-13 — Labor and Materials to Maintain/Repair/Refurbish
Various
Material
Handling
Equipment, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities and as authorized by Ordinance No. 1630-12 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 3, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 68-13 — Labor and Materials to Test, Inspect, Maintain,
Repair, Enhance or Replace Electronic Security Systems, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities and as authorized
by Ordinance No. 1216-11 passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, October 10, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 10, 2013 and April 17, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 507-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 910
East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the

April 17, 2013
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Busy Store,
Inc., 910 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
1143619 to Niju Investments, LLC,
910 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44119,
Permanent
Number
63817750050; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Busy Store, Inc., 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 1143619 to Niju
Investments, LLC, 910 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent
Number
63817750050;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

The City Record
Res. No. 508-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a
D5
Liquor
Permit
at
16826
Lakeshore Boulevard and repealing
Resolution No. 1283-11, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a
D5
Liquor
Permit
to
16826
Lakeshore Boulevard by Resolution
No. 1283-12 adopted by the Council
on September 10, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to 169, LLC, 16826
Lakeshore Boulevard, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
6548378 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 128312, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Res. No. 509-13.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C1 Liquor Permit at 4380
State Road and repealing Resolution
No. 1136-12, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C1 Liquor
Permit to State Road Food & Beverage, Inc., DBA Save More Mart,
4380 State Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 8517121 by Resolution No. 1136-12 adopted by the
Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to State Road Food &
Beverage, Inc., DBA Save More Mart,
4380 State Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 8517121, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1136-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the

619

27
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Res. No. 515-13.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cleveland, Westbrook, Pruitt, Cimperman, K. Johnson, Mitchell, Dow, J.
Johnson, Conwell, Miller, Polensek,
Brancatelli,
Kelley,
Brady
and
Keane.
An emergency resolution in support of Mayor Jackson, Mayors
Against Illegal Guns, the National
Council of Jewish Women, States
United to Prevent Gun Violence and
Ohio Coalition Against Gun Violence, and others, in their fight
against gun violence, and calling
upon Congress to take immediate
action to strengthen the national
background check system and enact
common sense gun laws in order to
help reduce gun violence in the
United States.
Whereas, gun violence in the United States has escalated to the point
of being epidemic; and
Whereas, Congress has a chance
to
act
now
to
strengthen
the
nation’s gun laws and legislate
national background checks; and
Whereas, a common sense legislative agenda includes federal legislation that will; require every gun
buyer to pass a criminal background
check; get military-style assault
weapons and high-capacity magazines off the streets; and make gun
trafficking a federal crime; and
Whereas,
Mayor
Jackson
has
joined over 900 mayors nationwide
who support stronger gun laws; and
Whereas, law enforcement officials, faith leaders, survivors of gun
violence and other United States citizens want Congress to act immediately to help reduce gun violence;
and
Whereas, Ohio’s Representatives
and Senators in Congress must heed
the country’s call to action and use
their legislative powers to help end
gun violence; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Mayor Jackson, Mayors Against
Illegal Guns, the National Council of
Jewish Women, States United to Prevent Gun Violence and Ohio Coalition
Against Gun Violence, and others, in
their fight against gun violence, and
calls upon Congress to take immediate action to strengthen the national
background check system and enact
common sense gun laws in order to
help reduce gun violence in the United States.
Section 2. That the Clerk is directed
to send copies of this resolution to
President Barack Obama, all members of the U.S. Congress and representatives of the National Council of
Jewish Women, States United to Prevent Gun Violence and Ohio Coalition
Against Gun Violence.

28
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Res. No. 516-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Westbrook, Sweeney, Kelley, K. Johnson, Mitchell, Brady, Pruitt, Brancatelli, Dow, Zone, Keane and Reed.
An emergency resolution supporting the Service Employees International Union, Local 1 janitors displaced after cleaning The Plain
Dealer office building for over three
decades, and urging The Plain Dealer to put these janitors back to
work and ensure that any cleaning
contractor it hires respects the
unionizing rights of workers and
maintains an acceptable standard of
wages and benefits.
Whereas, this Council believes
that all workers in the City of
Cleveland should be paid enough to
support their families; and
Whereas, this Council is concerned about the increasing disparity in our City between the wealthy
and the poor, and the existence of
too many low-wage jobs keeps citizens in a cycle of poverty; and
Whereas, many of the working
poor are in the service sector, the
fastest growing portion of our economy; and
Whereas, this Council adopted
Resolution No. 417-12 last March 26,
2012 that supported and encouraged
the rights of janitors to a livable
wage, health insurance, job security, safe working conditions and
union contract, and urged owners of
local office buildings to recognize
the hard work of those in their
buildings represented by the Service
Employees
International
Union,
Local 1 (SEIU Local 1); and
Whereas, SEIU, Local 1 has represented janitors at The Plain Dealer building for over three decades,
and janitors have established a standard for wages and benefits in
Downtown Cleveland through their
union; and
Whereas, long term employees
deserve consideration and respect;
and
Whereas, on March 8, 2013 The
Plain Dealer replaced the janitors
with non-union workers; and
Whereas, The Plain Dealer negotiated in good faith with other
unions representing employees at
the newspaper; and
Whereas, The Plain Dealer should
negotiate in good faith with SEIU,
Local 1 to put these displaced janitors back to work instead of hiring
a new cleaning contractor with nonunion workers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Service Employees International Union, Local 1 janitors dis-

The City Record
placed after cleaning The Plain Dealer office building for over three
decades, and urging The Plain Dealer
to put these janitors back to work and
ensure that any cleaning contractor it
hires respects the unionizing rights
of workers and maintains an acceptable standard of wages and benefits.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Yanela Sims, SEIU,
Local 1 and Terrance C. Z. Egger,
President, Publisher and CEO, The
Plain Dealer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Res. No. 517-13.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting
Ohio’s
Energy
Efficiency
Resource and Renewable Portfolio
Standards,
and
urging
Governor
Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to preserve Ohio’s cost-saving
energy efficiency laws and renewable energy laws.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has embraced sustainability, renewable energy, and energy efficiency
through a series of initiatives and
actions over the past decade, including creating Sustainable Cleveland
2019 and passing anti-idling legislation and wind turbine zoning legislation; and
Whereas, important energy efficiency investments have saved our
City money and energy, and put
local citizens to work; and
Whereas, energy efficiency is an
important way to save taxpayer
money and strengthen the City of
line,
cutting
bottom
Cleveland’s
energy waste from our budget; and
Whereas, the American Council
for an Energy Efficient Economy
has established that for every million dollars spent on energy efficiency, 21 jobs are jobs are created;
for every million spent on traditional energy sources only 7 jobs are
created; and
Whereas, the American Council
for an Energy Efficient Economy
estimates that energy efficiency programs across the country cost customers only 2.5 cents per kilowatt
hour, while the cost of new coal generation resources with the appropriate transmission and distribution
improvements cost 11 cents per kilowatt hour; and
Whereas, energy efficiency results
in local investment because it is
focused
on
buildings,
industrial
operations, and homes within our
cities meaning that dollars spent
benefit the local economy; and
Whereas,
current
Ohio
law
requires utilities to participate in
energy efficiency programs that
have been shown to reduce Ohio’s
energy consumption, encourage the
development of energy efficiency
technologies within Ohio, and create
local jobs; and

620

April 17, 2013
Whereas, energy efficiency investments pursuant to Ohio’s Energy
Efficiency Resource Standard are
made only when the investments are
cost-effective, meaning the savings
for consumers exceed the costs of
the investments; and
Whereas, the costs consumers and
businesses pay for these energy efficiency programs is far outweighed
by the savings they provide; and
Whereas,
Ohio's
Efficiency
Resource Standard is under threat,
and some would turn back the significant progress made since the
adoption of Senate Bill 221 in 2008,
and
Whereas, rolling back or freezing
Ohio’s energy efficiency standard
will increase energy costs for the
City of Cleveland, its citizens, and
its businesses in a time of recovery
from the worst recession since the
Great Depression; and
Whereas,
current
Ohio
law
requires utilities to purchase or generate
energy
from
renewable
sources that have been shown to
reduce Ohio’s energy reliance on
dirty forms of energy, encourage the
development of renewable energy
businesses in Ohio, and create local
jobs; and
Whereas, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio supports a mix of
generation
resources,
including
renewable, to minimize the risks,
including price spikes, associated
with an exclusive reliance on any
one type of electric generation; and
Whereas, Ohio is home to over 400
companies
that
self-identify
as
advanced energy businesses and collectively employ over 25,000 Ohio
residents, according to Advanced
Energy Economy Ohio; and
Whereas,
25,410
Ohioans
were
employed across 22 industry segments in the advanced energy industry in 2010 – the most recent year
data is available – equivalent to
Ohio employment in the agriculture/forestry and mining categories
combined; and
Whereas, according to the American Wind Energy Association, Ohio
has over 50 companies in the Wind
Manufacturing
companies
supply
chain, and Cuyahoga County has
more than any in the state; and
Whereas, 102 MW of Wind was
added to Ohio in 2011 and 308 in
2012, representing the largest capital outlays in state annually; and
Whereas, outside interests are
seeking to have the state’s Renewable Portfolio Standard halted, turning back significant progress made
since the adoption of Senate Bill 221
in 2008; and
Whereas, rolling back of Ohio’s
Renewable Portfolio Standard will
have significant impacts on Ohio’s
public health, economy, and jobs;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supOhio’s
Energy
Efficiency
ports
Resource and Renewable Portfolio
Standards, and urging Governor
Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to preserve Ohio’s cost-saving
energy efficiency laws and renewable energy laws.

April 17, 2013
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich,
William Batchelder, the Speaker of
the House, Keith Faber, the President
of the Senate, Peter Stautberg, Chair
of the Ohio House Public Utilities
Committee, William Seitz, the Chair
of the Ohio Senate Public Utilities
Committee, all members of the Ohio
House Public Utilities Committee,
and all members of the Ohio Senate
Public Utilities Committee.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Ord. No. 314-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
water
mains, fire hydrants, water main
appurtenances, service connections,
underground
enclosures,
concrete
repair, and tree lawn restoration,
including material, labor, and installation for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a period up to two
years of the necessary items of
water mains, water main appurtenances, fire hydrants, service connections, underground enclosures, concrete repair, and tree lawn restoration, including material, labor, and
installation
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of any purchase under the contract,
each of which purchases shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the
contract or contracts and certified
by the Director of Finance. (RQN
2002, RL 2013-5)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases

The City Record
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangewith
other
governmental
ments
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Ord. No. 358-13.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
enter into one or more contracts
with LAND Studio, Inc. for professional services necessary to manage
the City’s public art program in
2013, for a period up to one year,
with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of City
Planning.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
LAND Studio, Inc. for professional
services necessary to manage the
City’s art program in 2013 on the
basis of its proposal dated January
23, 2013, in an amount not to exceed
$50,000, for the Department of City
Planning, for a period up to one
year, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of City Planning. The contract or
contracts shall be paid from Fund
No. 01-0110-6380, RQS 0110, RL 201337.
Section 2. That the contract or contracts authorized above shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Ord. No. 364-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide environmental, health, safety, sustainability,
engineering,
and
other
services
needed for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control and Cleve-

621

29
land Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period up to
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
the
regularly
of
supplementing
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to provide environmental, health, safety, sustainability, and engineering services including but not limited to employee
health and safety services, geotechnical services, industrial hygiene
services,
materials
testing
and
analyses, water treatment process
laboratory testing seranalyses,
vices, hazardous substance identification and analyses, forensic investigations, energy audits, environmental sampling and analysis, and
other related professional consulting
services needed for the Divisions of
Water, Water Pollution Control and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period up
to two years.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF
001, and 58 SF 001, Request No. RQS
2002, RL 2013-8.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Ord. No. 513-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.022 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1657-09,
passed December 7, 2009, relating to
solid waste collection fee fixed rate.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 551.022 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance

30
No. 1657-09, passed December 7, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 551.022 Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate
(a) All residential properties shall
be charged a monthly rate of $8.75 per
unit for the collection and disposal of
solid waste. The per unit fee shall be
discounted by fifty percent (50%) for
a residential property owner that
receives a reduction in their water
rate under the homestead provisions
of Chapter 535.
(b) The fee shall be included on the
property owner’s water bill and shall
be due when the water charges are
due.
(c) Exemptions.
(1) A residential property owner
that resides in a multiple unit
dwelling where the other units of the
dwelling are vacant and not used for
rental purposes, may request an
exemption from the per-unit charge
for the unoccupied units.
(2) If a residential property owner
resides in their own property and that
property has been unoccupied for a
consecutive period of sixty (60) or
more days, the owner may request a
fifty percent (50%) discount from the
per-unit charge during that time.
(d) The Director of Public Works
shall create rules and regulations
establishing guidelines for vacant
properties.
(e) As used in this section:
(1) Residential property” means
real property that is improved by a
building or other structure that has
one (1) to four (4) dwelling units.
(2) “Dwelling unit” means a room
or group of rooms located within a
dwelling structure and forming a single habitable unit with living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitary
facilities used or intended to be used
by one (1) family.
(3) “Dwelling structure” means a
building
or
structure
used
or
designed or intended to be used, all or
in part, for residential purposes.
Section 2. That existing Section
551.022 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1657-09, passed December 7, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

Ord. No. 514-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name Vemel Whalen Way as a secondary name to Glendale Avenue
between Lee Road and East 169th
Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Vemel Whalen Way
shall be added as a secondary name to
Glendale Avenue between Lee Road
and East 169th Street.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 8, 2013.
Effective April 10, 2013.

REPRINT
Ord. No. 67-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to apply for and accept a
grant from the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation and PEW Charitable
Trusts for the Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City
Planning, in coordination with the
Director of Public Health, is authorized to apply for and accept a grant
in the approximate amount up to
$250,000, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term from the Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation and PEW Charitable Trusts to conduct the Health
Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the Health
Impact Assessment Factsheet and the
2012 Call for Proposal book for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the Health Impact
Assessment Factsheet and the 2012
Call for Proposal book for the grant,
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at a public hearing on
this legislation and set forth in File
No. 67-13-A, is made a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities,
or individuals to provide advisory services to implement the grant as
described in the file.

622

April 17, 2013
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of the City Planning Commission may
sign all documents and do all things
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process. The contracts will be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any grant funds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, April 15, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Public Parks, Properties & Recreation Committee: Present: K. Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Dow,
Polensek.
11:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Sweeney. Authorized Absence: Cummins, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Pruitt.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Tuesday, April 16, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Authorized
Westbrook,
Zone.
Absence: Cummins.
1:30 p.m.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Present: Zone, Chair; Westbrook, Vice
Chair; J. Johnson, Mitchell. Authorized Absence: Cummins.
Wednesday, April 17, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Cleveland,
Dow,
Miller, Mitchell, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Cummins.

April 17, 2013

The City Record

31

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Ashwood Road, 3113, (Ward 4) — Harold Chapman, owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-338-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aspinwall Avenue, 14917, (Ward 10) — William Deloney, deceased, c/o Tamara Thomas,
owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-314-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Benham Avenue, 12309, (Ward 4) — Mary Battle, owner — appeal resolved on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coltman Road, 1885, (Ward 9) — East 123rd Street Properties, Ltd., owner — extension of
time granted on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-104-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Connecticut Avenue, 8512, (Ward 2) — Rios Properties, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-12-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dove Avenue, 10600, (Ward 2) — Kevin and Alandre Jackson, owners — appeal adopted
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-343-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 3398, (Ward 6) — Mt. Pleasant Homes III, L.P., owner — appeal adopted
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-340-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 3440, (Ward 6) — Mt. Pleasant Homes III, L.P., owner — appeal adopted
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-341-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th Street, 3603, (Ward 6) — Don R. Blake, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 3445, (Ward 6) — Grassroot Innovations LLC, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-13-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1862, (Ward 9) — East 123rd Street Properties, Ltd., owner — extension
of time granted on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-103-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 139th Street, 3587, (Ward 4) — Dorothy Marshall-Barringer, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-9-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 936, (Ward 10) — Strongtower Christian Assembly, owner — appeal
resolved on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-14-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 142nd Street, 4333, (Ward 1) — Renard Parnell II, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-15-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 151st Street, 3834, (Ward 2) — Michael O’Bannon, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-18-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 175th Street , 4628, (Ward 1) — Dana Word, Sr., owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-11-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 4106, (Ward 12) — Marcelline Properties, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-21-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 89th Street, 2218, (Ward 6) — Talia Collins, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street, 2339, (Ward 6) — Lucretia Russell, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-10-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Boulevard, 12001, (Ward 2) — Tika Fufuka, owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-335-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 3600, (Ward 8) — International Union of Operating Engineers, Local
18, owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-331-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gay Avenue, 11914, (Ward 2) — J.C. Robinson, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-4-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 12306, (Ward 2) — Delores Robinson-Woods, owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-334-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Imperial Avenue, 11806, (Ward 4) — Pleasant Properties, L.P., owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-339-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kingsford Avenue, 14104, (Ward 1) — GS Real, LLC., owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-342-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Avenue, 210, (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County, owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-333-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Avenue, 12635, (Ward 6) — Shakerlan Properties, Inc., owner — appeal resolved
on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-8-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Carmel Road, 10815, (Ward 6) — Shaughn Hubbard, owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-1-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street, 3289, (Ward 14) — Sheila Alridge, owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-79-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 3279, (Ward 14) — Tatyana Stupnitski, owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-3-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 52nd Street, 3472, (Ward 15) — Ovidiu Sarsama, owner — appeal resolved on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2136, (Ward 3) — Richard M. and Adrienne Gray, Jr., owners — appeal
resolved on 4/10/13 (Doc. A-87-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 87th Street, 1281, (Ward 16) — Mirela Farcas, owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-5-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

623

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617

The City Record

32

April 17, 2013

West 90th Street, 3479, (Ward 16) — Jason Hager, owner — appeal adopted on 4/10/13
(Doc. A-6-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
West Boulevard, 3271, (Ward 16) — Lourdes Gonzalez, owner — appeal adopted on
4/10/13 (Doc. A-2-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Board of Control — Aging Department
Senior Day 2013 at Public Auditorium — May 21, 2013 — free of charge — exception to BOC
Res. 250-12 — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Flats East Bank roadway improvements (various locations) — amend Contract
PI2012*37 per BOC Res. 366-12 — Division of Engineering and Construction
(BOC Res. 161-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Community Development Department
West 116th Street, 3114 (Ward 14) — PPN 008-07-051 — Elizzabeth Schiros (BOC Res. 165-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — various events — MVP Valet
Service, Inc. per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Flats East Bank roadway improvements (various locations) — amend Contract
PI2012*37 per BOC Res. 366-12 — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 161-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Finance Department
Temporary and Seasonal personnel for seasonal programs — per Ord. 236-13 to Snider Blake
Business Service, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 162-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
West 116th Street, 3114 (Ward 14) — PPN 008-07-051 — Elizzabeth Schiros (BOC Res. 165-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Temporary and Seasonal personnel for seasonal programs — per Ord. 236-13 to Snider Blake
Business Service, Inc. — Depts. of Finance and Public Works (BOC Res. 162-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Website redesign — per Ord. 272-09 to Recess Creative, LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 160-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
Senior Day 2013 — May 21, 2013 — free of charge — exception to BOC Res. 250-12 — Depts.
of Public Works and Aging (BOC Res. 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — various events — MVP Valet
Service, Inc. per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Flats East Bank roadway improvements (various locations) — amend Contract
PI2012*37 per BOC Res. 366-12 — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital
Projects (BOC Res. 161-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Website redesign — per Ord. 272-09 to Recess Creative, LLC — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 160-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Senior Day 2013 at Public Auditorium — May 21, 2013 — free of charge — exception to BOC
Res. 250-12 — Dept. of Aging (BOC Res. 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Temporary and Seasonal personnel for seasonal programs — per Ord. 236-13 to Snider Blake
Business Service, Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 162-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — various events — MVP Valet
Service, Inc. per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

624

April 17, 2013

The City Record

33

Board of Control — Water Division
Website redesign — per Ord. 272-09 to Recess Creative, LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 160-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Valet parking service — various events — MVP Valet Service, Inc. per C.O. Sec.
183.04 (BOC Res. 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 5409, (Ward 15) — Silverstar Ohio Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 4/15/13 (Cal. 12-231). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 1595, (Ward 8) — Philip Neshkin, owner and Yorgi Wu, prospective tenant —
appeal heard on 4/15/13 (Cal. 13-46) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 2709, (Ward 4) — Jimmy Walls, dba Magic Auto Body, Inc., owner — appeal
withdrawn on 4/15/13 (Cal. 13-48). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Francis Avenue, 6114, (a.ka. 2969 East 61st Street), (Ward 12) — Elizabeth Baptist
Church, owner — appeal heard on 4/15/13 (Cal. 13-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Road, 1170, (Ward 10) — 1170 Ivanhoe LLC, owner and JJAK Mulch Services, LLC,
John Hirko, prospective tenant — appeal postponed to 5/28/13 on 4/15/13 (Cal. 12-220) . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 7801, (Ward 15) — Loraine Montgomery, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 4/15/13 (Cal. 13-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oak Park Avenue, 3702, (Ward 13) — Marcello Silvestri, owner — appeal heard on 4/15/13
(Cal. 13-21) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4414-20, (Ward 13) — Brian Bodach, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
4/15/13 (Cal. 12-202). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 3951, (Ward 19) — Bethesda Lutheran Home, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/15/13 (Cal. 12-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street, 3250, (Ward 17) — Abdul Addad, owner — appeal heard on 4/15/13
(Cal. 13-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 140th Street, 3952, (Ward 18) — Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner —
appeal heard on 4/15/13 (Cal. 13-45) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bessemer Avenue, 8200, (Ward 5) — Sidacko Bessemer I, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
4/29/13 (Cal. 13-55). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 3682, (Ward 4) — Wilson Fisher, Jr., owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Avenue, 806, (Ward 4) — Sandy Banks, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/29/13
(Cal. 13-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saranac Road, 16003, (Ward 11) — Joan Anger, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/29/13
(Cal. 13-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucson Avenue, 6100, (Ward 12) — Truscon Realty, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 76th Street, 1261, (Ward 15) — Gillespie Brothers Ltd., owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Bonds
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — Six Million One Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($ 6,100,000) — Finance Department (O 538-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — Eleven Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($ 11, 100,000) — Finance Department (O 537-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603

Capital Projects
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way —
City Planning Commission (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
Glendale Ave. (Between Wendy Dr. and East 131st St.) — Secondary Name of Vernel Whalen
Way — repeal Ord. 514-13 — City Planning Commission (Ward 01) (O 541-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

City Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk Pro Tempore — April 15 through April18, 2013 (F 552-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595

City of Cleveland Bids
Electronic Security Systems — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
Ord. 1216-11 — bid due May 22, 2013 (advertised 4/10/2013 and 4/17/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Material handling equipment maintenance, repair and refurbishment — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1630-12 — bid due May 22, 2013 (advertised
4/10/2013 and 4/17/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

625

The City Record

34

April 17, 2013

Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 3, 2013 (advertised 4/10/2013
and 4/17/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Water main replacement on Hickory Lane (City of Seven Hills) — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1727-12 — bid due May 3, 2013 (advertised
4/10/2013 and 4/17/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

City Planning Commission
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward 15)
(O 133-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. And East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way —
Capital Projects (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
Glendale Ave. (Between Wendy Dr. and East 131st St.) — Secondary Name of Vernel Whalen
Way — repeal Ord. 514-13 — Capital Projects (Ward 01) (O 541-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — Grant — Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation & Pew Charitable Trusts (O 67-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595-622
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark (Ward 08)
(O 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Land Studio, Inc. — professional service — contracts — Manage The City’s Public Art Program
In 2013 (O 358-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 — designate
as landmark (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 12) (O 320-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

Clerk of Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk Pro Tempore — April 15 through April18, 2013 (F 552-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595

Cleveland Metropolitan School District (CMSD)
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — Contract to benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Public Works Department — Finance Department (O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Utilities Department — Professional services to host and manage Billing System, Including
On-Line Bill Payment and Presentment Services for Water Division & CPP (O 366-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s) 605.11, 621.03, and 623.10 — Misconduct involving a Public Transportation
System and against a Public Transportation Worker (O 167-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 403.99 — Traffic Code Misdemeanor Classification Penalties — Stopping for
School Buses — Safety Department (O 1659-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Area Business Code — Amend Section 187.04, 187.06, 187.12 and 187.14 — Equal
Opportunity Office (O 532-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident Employment Law — Amend Sect(s) 188.01 to 188.08 —
Enact New Section 188.021 (Apprentices) — Retitle Chapter 188 as the Fannie M. Lewis
Cleveland Resident and Apprentice Employment Law (O 533-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Communications
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk Pro Tempore — April 15 through April18, 2013 (F 552-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595
Internal Audit Report — City of Cleveland Employee Health Care Benefits — Human Resources
Department — Jan. 1 to May 31, 2012 (F 546-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Internal Audit Report — Public Safety Audit — Police Property Room — Period Ending June
30, 2011 (F 547-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Condolences
Chambers, Francis (R 551-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Duncan, Queen E. (R 555-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Hamm, Esther (R 560-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

626

April 17, 2013

The City Record

35

Malone, Christine Marie Johnson (R 553-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Moulagiannis, Kostadino “Gus “ (R 539-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Roark, Dr. Christopher (R 554-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Congratulations
Forbes, George L., Esq. (R 556-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Contracts
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — Utilities
Department (O 431-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . .
Land Studio, Inc. — professional service — Manage The City’s Public Art Program In 2013 —
City Planning Commission (O 358-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — To benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Works Department — Finance
Department (O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair —
Water Division (O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Finance Department
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal Audit Report — City of Cleveland Employee Health Care Benefits — Human Resources
Department — Jan. 1 to May 31, 2012 (F 546-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal Audit Report — Public Safety Audit — Police Property Room — Period Ending June
30, 2011 (F 547-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — Six Million One Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($ 6,100,000) (O 538-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — Eleven Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($ 11,100,000) (O 537-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — Contract to benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Works Department
(O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 51 — Amend Ord. 668-12 — Housing Court Division
(O 536-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 603

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

Fire Division
Pavlik, Roland — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 544-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Health Department
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Housing Court
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 51 — Amend Ord. 668-12 — Housing Court Division —
Finance Department (O 536-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

Human Resources Department
Internal Audit Report — City of Cleveland Employee Health Care Benefits — Jan. 1 to May
31, 2012 (F 546-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Landmark Commission
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 316-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 319-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

627

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

The City Record

36

April 17, 2013

Lease By Way Of Concession
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Liquor Permits
Corlett Ave., 12401 — new application (Ward 02) (F 543-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd., 5351-5355 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1026-12 (Ward 05)
(R 550-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 507-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 16826 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1283-11 (Ward 11)
(R 508-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 300 and St. Clair Ave., 1 — new application (Ward 03) (F 548-13) . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15707 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 31-13 (Ward 11)
(R 549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Rd., 4380 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 1136-12 (Ward 13)
(R 509-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th St., 1111 — new application (Ward 03) (F 545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Mayor’s Office
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Oath of Office
Pavlik, Roland — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 544-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Office of Equal Opportunity
Cleveland Area Business Code — Amend Section 187.04, 187.06, 187.12 and 187.14 (O 532-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident Employment Law — Amend Sect(s) 188.01 to 188.08 —
Enact New Section 188.021 (Apprentices) — Retitle Chapter 188 as the Fannie M. Lewis
Cleveland Resident and Apprentice Employment Law (O 533-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Ohio General Assembly
Supporting Hospitals and Ohioans in Urging General Assembly to expand Medicaid Eligibility
in Ohio (R 542-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

Professional Services
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Land Studio, Inc. — contracts — Manage The City’s Public Art Program In 2013 — City
Planning Commission (O 358-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Utilities Department — Host AND Manage Billing System, Including On-Line Bill Payment and
Presentment Services for Water Division & CPP (O 366-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Public Works
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Baseball Diamond at Halloran Park — name change — Margaret M. Sweeney (Marge) Baseball
Diamond (Ward 17) (O 540-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — Contract to benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Finance Department (O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Recognition
Cleveland Asian Festival — 4th Annual (R 557-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Playhouse Square — 20th Annual “Fair On The Square” (R 558-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Timothy Leadership Conference — 14th Annual (R 559-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Regional Transit Authority (RTA)
Amend Sect(s) 605.11, 621.03, and 623.10 — Misconduct involving a Public Transportation
System and against a Public Transportation Worker (O 167-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Resolution of Support
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
Supporting Hospitals and Ohioans in urging General Assembly to expand Medicaid Eligibility
in Ohio (R 542-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

628

April 17, 2013

The City Record

37

Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R.516-13

Safety Department
Amend Section 403.99 — Traffic Code Misdemeanor Classification Penalties — Stopping for
School Buses (O 1659-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Internal Audit Report — Public Safety Audit — Police Property Room — Period Ending June
30, 2011 (F 547-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Pavlik, Roland — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division (F 544-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Salaries
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 51 — Amend Ord. 668-12 — Housing Court Division —
Finance Department (O 536-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

State of Ohio
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Supporting Hospitals AND Ohioans in urging General Assembly to expand Medicaid Eligibility
in Ohio (R 542-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Streets — Name
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way —
City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
Glendale Ave. (Between Wendy Dr. and East 131st St.) — Secondary Name of Vernel Whalen
Way — repeal Ord. 514-13 — City Planning Commission — Capital Projects
(Ward 01) (O 541-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

Summer Employment Program
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — contracts —
Utilities Department (O 431-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Traffic Code
Amend Section 403.99 — Traffic Code Misdemeanor Classification Penalties — Stopping for
School Buses — Safety Department (O 1659-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Utilities Department
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — contracts (O 431-13)
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . .
Professional services to host and manage Billing System, Including On-Line Bill Payment
and Presentment Services for Water Division & CPP (O 366-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair —
Water Division (O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Ward 01
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way
City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glendale Ave. (Between Wendy Dr. and East 131st St.) — Secondary Name of Vernel Whalen
Way — repeal Ord. 514-13 — City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (O 541-13) . . . .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 02
Corlett Ave., 12401 — new application — liquor permit (F 543-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Ward 03
Lakeside Ave., 300 and St. Clair Ave., 1 — new application — liquor permit (F 548-13) . . . . . . . . .
Playhouse Square — 20th Annual “Fair On The Square” — Recognition (R 558-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roark, Dr. Christopher — Condolence (R 554-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Hospitals and Ohioans in urging General Assembly to expand Medicaid Eligibility
in Ohio (R 542-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th St., 1111 — new application — liquor permit (F 545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

629

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

The City Record

38

April 17, 2013

Ward 04
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 05
Dolloff Rd., 5351-5355 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1026-12 —
liquor permit (R 550-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 06
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
Malone, Christine Marie Johnson — Condolence (R 553-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Timothy Leadership Conference — 14th Annual — Recognition (R 559-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Ward 07
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 08
Cleveland Asian Festival — 4th Annual — Recognition (R 557-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as
landmark — City Planning Commission (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Duncan, Queen E. — Condolence (R 555-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forbes, George L., Esq. — Congratulations (R 556-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 196-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

Ward 11
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 507-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 16826 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1283-11 —
liquor permit (R 508-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15707 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 31-13 — liquor permit
(R 549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

Ward 12
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 320-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 13
State Rd., 4380 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 1136-12 — liquor
permit (R 509-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 15
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 133-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 16
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

630

April 17, 2013

The City Record

39

Ward 17
Baseball Diamond at Halloran Park — name change — Margaret M. Sweeney (Marge)
Baseball Diamond — Public Works Department (O 540-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Ward 18
Forbes, George L., Esq. — Congratulations (R 556-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moulagiannis, Kostadino “Gus “ — Condolence (R 539-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

596
619
596
620
620

Ward 19
Chambers, Francis — Condolence (R 551-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Hamm, Esther — Condolence (R 560-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Water Division
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Utilities Department — Professional services to host and manage Billing System, Including
On-Line Bill Payment And Presentment Services For Water Division & CPP (O 366-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair
(O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Water Pollution Control Division
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability And Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Zoning
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height District- City
Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 133-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 320-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

631

