The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Ninth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings

3
16
16
21
22

23
24

Index

24

23
23
23
23

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5170

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Reed.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Cleveland, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Kelley.

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

COMMUNICATION
File No. 1-13.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins,

December 28, 2012
Honorable Martin J. Sweeney,
Council President
Patricia J. Britt, Clerk of Council
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue 220
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Council President Sweeney and
Clerk Britt:
Please consider this correspondence as notification that I will
retire as Ward 4 Councilman, effective December 31, 2012.
With kindest regards,
Kenneth L. Johnson
Councilman, Ward 4

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Received.
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 7, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Martin
J. Keane, Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene
R. Miller, Mamie J. Mitchell, Michael
D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Martin J. Sweeney and Jay Westbrook.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief of Education Monyka S.
Price,
Chief
of
Communications
Maureen Harper, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief of
Public Affairs Natoya J. Walker
Minor
and
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik, Butler,
Flask,
Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Griffin,
Brown, Fumich, and Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

11

ELECTION TO FILL
VACANCY IN WARD 4
After the Clerk read Communication File No. 1-13, the President of
Council declared a vacancy in Ward
4.
Council Member Kelley nominated
Kenneth L. Johnson to serve as
Council Member representing Ward
4.
Council Member Westbrook seconded the nomination.
Council Member Cleveland moved
that the nominations be closed.
Without objection, the nominations were closed. Thereupon, the
President of Council instructed the
Members of Council to state the
name
of
the
candidate
when
responding to the roll call, and
requested the Clerk of Council to
call the roll upon the election of
Council Member of Ward 4. Upon
completion of the roll call, the Clerk
announced that Kenneth L. Johnson
received 13 votes. Those who voted
for Kenneth L. Johnson were Council Members: Sweeney, Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Dow, J. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, and Westbrook. Those who voted nay were
Council Members: Brady, Cummins,
Polensek. Council Members Reed
and Zone were absent.

The City Record

4
The Chair declared Kenneth L.
Johnson, having received the majority vote of all the Members elected
to Council to be the duly elected
Council Member of Ward 4.
The Council President requested
the duly elected Member of Council
and his family to the podium to
have the oath of office administered
by Judge Charles Patton. Council
Member Kenneth Johnson took his
seat in the Council Chambers, made
brief remarks, and assumed the
duties of the Council, representing
Ward 4.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 36-13.
State of Ohio

)
)SS.
County of Cuyahoga )
I, Kenneth L. Johnson, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of the State of Ohio,
and the Charter of the City of Cleveland, and that I will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the
duties of the office of Ward 4 Councilman of the Council of the City of
Cleveland, State of Ohio, during my
continuance in said office.
Kenneth L. Johnson
Sworn to before me and subscribed in my presence on the 7th
day of January, 2013.
Allan B. Dreyer
Notary Public, State of Ohio

January 9, 2013

File No. 5-13.
From Sharon Dumas, Department
of Finance, City of Cleveland —
Notification of acceptance of a gift
of a painting and frame restoration
from Andrew and Judith Finger,
and
issuance
of
charitable
tax
receipt. Received.
File No. 29-13.
From Crowell Moring — End of
Year Report for the 112th CongressFederal Issues Important to Cleveland. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 6-13.
RE: #2403667 — C1, C2 Transfer
of
Ownership
Application,
East
185th Marathon, Inc., 1201 East 185th
St. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 7-13.
RE: #0576223 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application, Behrens
Tavern Holding LLC, 1360 West 9th
St. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 8-13.
RE: #4419315 — D5 Transfer of
Location Application, K.I.G. Inc.,
1437
St.
Clair
Ave.
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 9-13.
RE: #7027284 — D1, D2, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership Application, Porco Inc., 2527 West 25th St.
(Ward 14). Received.

December 18, 2012
Allen Dreyer
Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

Your assistance is appreciated.
Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney,
President Council
Received.

File No. 12-13.
RE: #3831908 — C1, C2, D6 Transfer of Ownership Application, High
Point Deli Inc., 4915 Memphis Ave.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 13-13.
RE: #3471690 — C1 New License
Application,
H.M.A.K.
LLC,
6029
Superior Ave., 1268-72 East 61st St.
(Ward 7). Received.
File No. 14-13.
RE:
#65172421525
—
C1
New
License
Application,
Ohio
CVS
Stores LLC, 10825 Kinsman Rd.
(Ward 6). Received.
File No. 15-13.
RE:
#22348151420
—
C1
License Application, Dolgen
west LLC, 15707 St. Clair
(Ward 11). Received.

New
MidAve.

COMMUNICATIONS
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
File No. 2-13.
From Cuyahoga County Board of
Elections.
Certificate
of
Official
Results for Cleveland Issue 119 —
Proposed Charter Amendment for
November 6, 2012 General Election.
Received.
File No. 4-13.
From Cleveland Thermal, LLC. —
Balance Sheet for years of 2010 and
2011, and Schedule of Major Capital
Improvements. Received.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 53-13—Judge Jean Murrell
Capers (100th Birthday).
Res. No. 54-13—Johnnie Lois Swanson.
Res. No. 55-13—Rev. Richard Jordan, Jr.
Res.
No.
56-13—Kevin
Cornell
Rodgers.
Res. No. 57-13—Martin “Marty”
Piszczak.
Res. No. 58-13—Thelma Donella
Thomas.
Res. No. 59-13—Richard A. Ganim.
Res. No. 60-13—Carrie Hansen.
Res. No. 61-13—Gary Travis.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 62-13—Nikki Scarpitti.

File No. 11-13.
RE: #6430483 — C1, C2 Stock Ownership Change Application, Nishkam
One LLC, 4677 West 130th St. (Ward
18). Received.

Dear Mr. Dreyer:
You are requested by Cleveland
City Council, without objection, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for all matters requiring the
Clerk’s signature from December 21,
2012 to January 6, 2013.

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
File No. 10-13.
RE: #6274623 — C1, C2 Transfer
of
Ownership
Application,
MYM
Enterprises LLC, 4155 East 71st St.
(Ward 12). Received.

COMMUNICATION
File No. 3-13.

Res.
No.
43-13—Gregory
S.
Thomas, Jr.
Res. No. 44-13—Annie L. Caldwell.
Res. No. 45-13—James L. Davis.
Res. No. 46-13—Johnnie Mae Reid
Johnson Wylie.
Res. No. 47-13—Lucille B. Morris.
Res. No. 48-13—Mamie Coleman
Giles.
Res. No. 49-13—Thomas A. Blake,
Sr.
Res. No. 50-13—Capt. Jim Fryan
(of the Goodtime III).
Res. No. 51-13—Robert J. Mason,
Jr.
Res. No. 52-13—Daniel Marizette,
Sr.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 37-13—Laura Sunderman.
Res. No. 38-13—Jean Keating.
Res. No. 39-13—Patrick J. Patton.
Res. No. 40-13—William R. Hills.
Res. No. 41-13—Edith Rebecca Bottoms.
Res. No. 42-13—Senora J. Etcherson Bickerstaff.

12

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 23-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Priority Dispatch for the acquisition
of one or more ProQA software licenses and training for a Fire module dispatch system, including maintenance
and technical support for a period of
one year after the warranty on the
software expires, for the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Priority
Dispatch for the acquisition of one or
more ProQA software licenses and
training for a Fire module dispatch
system, including maintenance and
technical support for a period of one
year after the warranty on the software expires, on the basis of its proposal dated November 26, 2012, in the
total sum of $159,040.00, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public
Safety. The contract or contracts
shall be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
RQS 6001, RL 2012-158.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

January 9, 2013
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety; Finance; Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 24-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 940-11,
passed July 20, 2011, relating to the
West 25th Street Lofts, LLC.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 940-11, passed July 20, 2011,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 940-11-B, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in
this legislation, and are approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That the existing Section
2 of Ordinance No. 940-11, passed July
20, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
Capital
Projects,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 26-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of safety equipment, consumables, and supplies for compliance
with OSHA regulations and general
safety standards, for the Divisions of
Water, Cleveland Public Power and
Water Pollution Control, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a two
year period of the necessary items of
various types of safety equipment,
consumables, and supplies for compliance with OSHA regulations and general safety standards, in the approximate amount as purchased during the
preceding term, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis for the Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public
Power and Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids

The City Record
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2012064)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 27-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
supplemental
lease-purchase
agreements, and other agreements
relating to the lease-purchase of the
Cleveland Stadium; approving supplemental trust agreements and the
issuance of refunding certificates of
participation or conversion and
remarketing of variable rate certificates of participation; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance No.
305-96 passed by the Council of the
City on March 8, 1996, and for the purpose of acquiring by lease-purchase
the Cleveland Stadium, the City
signed and delivered a Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as of June 1,
1997 (as amended and supplemented,
the “Facility Lease”) between the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority (the “Authority”), as lessor,
and the City, as lessee, and approved
a Trust Agreement dated as of June
1, 1997 (as amended and supplemented, the “Trust Agreement”), between
the Authority and U.S. Bank National
Association,
as
trustee
(the
“Trustee”), pursuant to which the
Trustee signed and delivered various
series of Certificates (as defined in
the Trust Agreement), each such
series of Certificates evidencing proportionate interests in Base Rent (as
defined in the Facility Lease) to be
paid by the City pursuant to the Facility Lease; and
Whereas, under the Trust Agreement, Additional Certificates (as
defined in the Trust Agreement) may,
with the approval of the City, be
issued to pay the cost of refunding
Outstanding Certificates (as defined
in Section 1); and

13

5
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance of
Additional Certificates (“Refunding
Certificates”) under the Trust Agreement, or the conversion of the interest
rate on and remarketing of Outstanding Certificates, to refund or restructure Outstanding Certificates and corresponding Base Rent payments, as
provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the refinancing of securities
of the City and providing for the
immediate preservation of the public
peace, property, health or safety in
that authorizing the refunding and
restructuring of Outstanding Certificates and related credit support,
hedging arrangements and other
agreements is necessary to enable the
City to respond to market conditions
on a timely basis to obtain debt service savings or to stabilize interest
rates or to minimize risks of
increased
interest
expense
or
increased risks, burdens, or other
costs
associated
with
hedging
arrangements
or
credit
support
instruments in connection with the
lease-purchase of the Cleveland Stadium, to mitigate burdensome schedules of Certificate Payments and corresponding Base Rent payments or to
remove, avoid or mitigate unduly
restrictive covenants or costs of funding or maintaining reserves; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition to
the words and terms defined in the
Existing Trust Agreement and Existing Facility Lease (as defined in this
Section), the following words and
terms shall have the following meanings unless the context or use indicates a contrary meaning or intention:
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby securities purchase
agreement or other credit enhancement, support or liquidity device used
to enhance or provide for the security
or liquidity of any Certificates or any
Hedge Agreements.
“Existing Facility Lease” means
the Lease-Purchase Agreement dated
as of June  1,  1997, as supplemented
and amended by the First Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated
as of September 15, 1999, the Second
Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2001, the
Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement
dated as of October 1, 2007, the Fourth
Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated May 29, 2008, and the Fifth
Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as of April 1, 2010, each
between the Authority, as lessor, and
the City, as lessee.
“Existing Ground Lease” means the
Ground Lease dated as of June 1, 1997,
as supplemented and amended by the
First Supplemental Ground Lease
dated as of September 15, 1999, the
Second Supplemental Ground Lease
dated as of December 1, 2001, and the
Third Supplemental Ground Lease
dated as of April 1, 2010, each between
the City, as lessor, and the Authority,
as lessee.
“Existing Trust Agreement” means
the Trust Agreement dated as of June
1, 1997, as supplemented and amended
by the First Supplemental Trust
Agreement dated as of September 15, 1999, the Second Supplemental
Trust Agreement dated as of October
1, 2007, the Third Supplemental Trust
Agreement dated May 29, 2008, and
the
Fourth
Supplemental
Trust

6
Agreement dated as of April 1, 2010,
each between the Authority and the
Trustee.
“Facility Lease” means the Existing Facility Lease, as to be supplemented and amended from time to
time by a Supplemental Lease.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, in connection with any Certificates or any
Hedge Agreements.
“Ground Lease” means the Existing
Ground Lease, as to be supplemented
and amended from time to time by a
Supplemental Ground Lease.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchaser” means, with
respect to each series of Refunding
Certificates, the party or, collectively,
parties identified as such in the Purchase Agreement for that series.
“Outstanding Certificates”, as used
in this Ordinance, means Certificates
issued and outstanding from time to
time under the Trust Agreement. On
the date of introduction of this Ordinance, the Outstanding Certificates
(and
the
respective
principal
amounts then currently outstanding)
consisted of the following series of
Certificates:
Series
1999
($2,395,706.00);
and
Series
2010
($121,210,000.00).
“Purchase Agreement” means, with
respect to the issuance of Refunding
Certificates, the purchase agreement,
commitment or other written agreement between the City and the Original Purchaser or a representative of
that Original Purchaser setting forth
the terms for the purchase by the
Original Purchaser of those Refunding Certificates.
“Purchase Price” means, with
respect to a series of Refunding Certificates, the amount specified in the
Purchase Agreement for that series to
be paid by the Original Purchaser for
the purchase of those Refunding Certificates, provided that amount shall
be not less than (i) 97% of the amount
determined by adding to the aggregate principal amount of the Refunding Certificates any aggregate original issue premium and subtracting
from that amount any aggregate original issue discount and any premium
or other costs of any Credit Support
Instrument purchased from the proceeds of the Refunding Certificates,
plus (ii) any accrued interest on the
Refunding Certificates from their
date to the date of their delivery to
the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Certificates” means the
Outstanding Certificates identified in
a Supplemental Trust Agreement as
the Certificates to be refunded with
the proceeds of Refunding Certificates.
“Refunding Certificates” means the
Certificates authorized by this Ordinance to be issued as Additional Certificates under the Trust Agreement
in one or more series for the purpose
of refunding one or more series of
Outstanding Certificates or designated portions thereof.
“Series 1999 Certificates” means the
Certificates of Participation, Series
1999 (Cleveland Stadium Project),
issued under the Trust Agreement on
September 29, 1999.
“Series 2010 Certificates” means the
Refunding Certificates of Participation, Series 2010 (Cleveland Stadium
Project), issued under the Trust
Agreement on April 22, 2010.
“Supplemental
Ground
Lease”
means each Supplemental Ground
Lease, and any Amended and Restat-

The City Record
ed Supplemental Ground Lease or
Amended and Restated Ground Lease
between the City and the Authority,
delivered to supplement and amend
the Ground Lease, in connection with
the issuance of one or more series of
Additional Certificates or the remarketing of any Outstanding Certificates or the contracting for or termination or replacement of any Hedge
Agreement or Credit Support Instrument relating to any Certificates.
“Supplemental Lease” means each
Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement, Amended and Restated Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement,
or Amended and Restated Lease-Purchase
Agreement
between
the
Authority and the City, delivered to
supplement and amend the Facility
Lease,
in
connection
with
the
issuance of one or more series of Additional Certificates or the remarketing
of any Outstanding Certificates or the
contracting for or termination or
replacement of any Hedge Agreement
or Credit Support Instrument relating
to any Certificates.
“Supplemental Trust Agreement”
means each Supplemental Trust
Agreement, Amended and Restated
Supplemental Trust Agreement, or
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement between the Authority and the
Trustee, delivered to supplement and
amend the Trust Agreement, to provide for the security and terms of one
or more series of Additional Certificates or the remarketing of any Outstanding Certificates or the contracting for or termination or replacement
of any Hedge Agreement or Credit
Support Instrument relating to any
Certificates.
“Trust Agreement” means the
Existing Trust Agreement, as to be
supplemented and amended from time
to time by a Supplemental Trust
Agreement.
“Trustee” means the bank or trust
company at the time serving as
Trustee under the Trust Agreement,
currently U.S. Bank National Association.
Section 2. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines
as follows:
(a) Public Purpose. The acquisition, financing and refinancing by the
City of the Cleveland Stadium pursuant to the Ground Lease, the Facility Lease and the Trust Agreement
and the use of the Cleveland Stadium
as a source of public relaxation and
entertainment served and serves a
proper public municipal purpose.
(b) Supplemental Ground Lease,
Supplemental Lease, Supplemental
Trust Agreement and Refunding Certificates. It is necessary, proper and
in the best interest of the City to
authorize one or more Supplemental
Ground Leases, Supplemental Leases
and
Purchase
Agreements
and
approve one or more Supplemental
Trust Agreements and the issuance of
Refunding Certificates in one or more
series for the purpose of refunding
one or more series of the Outstanding
Certificates or designated portions
thereof, (i) to obtain aggregate net
present value savings in Certificate
Payments and corresponding Base
Rent payments of at least three percent (3%), (ii) that are short-term or
variable-rate obligations and that the
Director of Finance has determined,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, are subjecting the
City to Base Rent payments the interest components of which include
undesirably high rates of interest or
undesirable fluctuations in rates of
interest, or risks or expenses associated with hedging arrangements or

14

January 9, 2013
credit support instruments that can
economically be avoided or mitigated
through refinancing, or (iii) to eliminate or modify covenants that are
unduly restrictive, or to obtain a more
favorable Base Rent payment schedule or more favorable terms under
credit support instruments.
Separate series of Refunding Certificates may be issued at the same or
different times. A Purchase Agreement, Supplemental Lease and Supplemental Trust Agreement shall be
delivered for each series and may be
delivered for multiple series. A Supplemental Ground Lease shall be
delivered for any series of Refunding
Certificates with a final maturity
later than the final maturity of the
then Outstanding Certificates.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates and signing and delivery
of Supplemental Ground Leases, Supplemental Leases and Purchase
Agreements and approval of Supplemental Trust Agreements in connection with such issuance for the purpose provided in this Ordinance
serves a proper, public, municipal purpose by reducing or stabilizing or
minimizing risks of increasing the
costs to the City of the lease-purchase
of the Cleveland Stadium which is a
source of public relaxation and entertainment for the people of the City of
Cleveland.
(c) Leased Premises. The Council
of the City found and determined at
the time of the authorization of the
Existing Facility Lease and approval
of the Existing Trust Agreement and
the Outstanding Certificates, and
hereby reaffirms, that the Leased
Premises are essential to the proper,
efficient and economic operation of
the City.
Section 3. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements. This Council finds
that by engaging in interest rate
hedging arrangements with respect
to the Facility Lease and Certificates
the City may reduce its financing
costs by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and variable rate
obligations, or minimizing the risk of
variations in its financing costs, or
minimizing any risks, burdens or
costs associated with existing hedging arrangements, or obtaining savings by confirming rates of interest
on Certificates in advance of their
issuance. To permit the City to have
the flexibility to undertake, with
respect to the Facility Lease and Certificates, interest rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate collar and other
hedging transactions, from time to
time, and to establish the procedures
for approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements
(each, a “Hedge Agreement”), and
any related agreements necessary for
the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The terms of those Hedge
Agreements may vary from the terms
of any existing Hedge Agreements.
The authorizations in this Section are
supplemental to and not in derogation
of any authority provided by any
other ordinance of this Council concerning hedging arrangements.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be subject to
appropriation and certification as
provided in the Facility Lease. Those
payments may be secured by the
Facility Lease, to the extent permitted by the Trust Agreement, all as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the City
to make payments under any Hedge

January 9, 2013
Agreement does not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City or the State of Ohio. Nothing
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to the Facility Lease or any Certificates issued or to be issued under the
Trust Agreement, the Director of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that the
term of each hedge transaction shall
not exceed the final maturity of the
Certificates to which the hedge
relates.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement. The City shall receive a written
opinion of a Financial Advisor that
the payments made or to be made by
the counterparty to the City, or by the
City to the counterparty, shall be fair
value for the Hedge Agreement, considering, among other things, the
credit of the City, the credit of the
counterparty and the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall determine
the terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement, including without limitation, the rates to be paid by the counterparty to the City and by the City to
the counterparty under the Hedge
Agreement, the time or times and procedures for the exercise by the counterparty or the City, as the case may
be, of any option under the Hedge
Agreement, and whether the obligations of the City under the Hedge
Agreement shall be secured by a Credit Support Instrument and, if so, the
terms and conditions of such Credit
Support Instrument. The approval of
each interest rate hedge transaction
by the Director of Finance shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to enter into amendments
or modification or novation of or to
terminate in whole or in part any
Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such amendment, modification,
novation or termination. Any payments owed by the City upon such
amendment, modification, novation or
termination may be paid from the proceeds of Refunding Certificates or
from Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601
and 01 SF 001 or from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
In the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that it
is necessary to supplement or amend
the Facility Lease or the Trust Agreement in connection with any Hedge
Agreement or any amendment, modification, novation or termination of
any Hedge Agreement, the Mayor and
the Director of Finance are authorized to sign and deliver a Supplemental Lease and to signify approval

The City Record
of the Supplemental Trust Agreement, approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to develop, adopt and revise
such policies and procedures as the
Director of Finance reasonably concludes are necessary for the evaluation, incurrence, maintenance, monitoring, administration, legal compliance and reporting of any Hedge
Agreements.
Section 4. Credit Support Instruments. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract from time to
time for one or more Credit Support
Instruments for any series of Outstanding Certificates or any Hedge
Agreement if the Director determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instruments will result in
savings to the City, will stabilize
interest rates or minimize the risk of
increased
interest
expense
or
increased risks, burdens, or other
costs
associated
with
hedging
arrangements or reserve requirements relating to those Certificates.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to agree to the amendment, replacement, assignment or termination of any such contract if the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the City’s best
interests will be served by such
amendment, replacement, assignment
or termination. In the event the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Ground Lease,
Facility Lease or the Trust Agreement in order to permit the use of or to
amend, replace, assign or terminate a
Credit Support Instrument, the Mayor
and the Director of Finance are authorized to sign and deliver a Supplemental Ground Lease or a Supplemental Lease or both and to signify
approval of the Supplemental Trust
Agreement, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law.
The cost of obtaining, amending,
replacing, assigning or terminating
each Credit Support Instrument,
except to the extent paid by the Original Purchaser in accordance with the
Purchase Agreement or the remarketing agent in accordance with a remarketing agreement, shall be paid from
the proceeds of Refunding Certificates or the proceeds of remarketing
or from Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601
and 01 SF 001 or from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. Refunding of Certificates; Escrow Agreements. The Director of Finance is authorized to sign
and deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, one or more escrow agreements between the City and the
Trustee, as escrow trustee, providing
for, among other matters: the investment and holding in escrow of the proceeds of Refunding Certificates to be
applied to the refunding of Refunded
Certificates; the application of the
moneys derived from those investments to the payment of the Certificate Payments on Refunded Certificates, and the irrevocable call for
redemption of Refunded Certificates
to be called for redemption prior to
maturity. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to each escrow agreement from proceeds of Refunding Certificates to the
extent available and then from Fund
Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF 001
or from other money lawfully avail-

15

7
able and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined by the Director of Finance. Provision shall be made in each escrow
agreement to give the Trustee any
written notice of redemption required
under the Trust Agreement. The
Director of Finance and other City
officials, as appropriate under the
Charter, shall sign all documents and
take all other actions necessary or
appropriate on the part of the City to
effect each such refunding in accordance with the Trust Agreement and
to cause the Refunded Certificates to
be deemed paid and discharged,
including without limitation, the
retention of an independent public
accounting firm to verify the mathematical accuracy of the calculations
relating to the escrow. Upon the
issuance and delivery of a series of
Refunding Certificates, the Trustee
and the City are authorized to disburse from the Funds established and
maintained under the Trust Agreement such amounts of moneys as are
in excess of the balances required by
the Trust Agreement to then be maintained in those Funds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to give written
notice to the Trustee of the call for
redemption of the Refunded Certificates on the earliest redemption date
following the issuance of the Refunding Certificates, pursuant to the
Trust Agreement and the applicable
escrow agreement.
Section 6. Determination of Base
Rent and Terms of Refunding Certificates; Application of Proceeds.
(a) Principal Components and
Term. Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is in furtherance of one or more
of the purposes set forth in Section
2(b) of this Ordinance that one or
more series of Refunding Certificates
be issued to refund Outstanding Certificates, the Director of Finance is
authorized to negotiate and provide
for the terms of the Refunding Certificates and the Base Rent, as amended pursuant to a Supplemental Lease,
including the final Lease Term, and
the annual and aggregate principal
components of Base Rent. The principal amount of each series of Refunding Certificates and the corresponding principal component of Base Rent
is to be the amount set forth in the
Purchase Agreement for that series
and shall be the amount determined
by the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary (i) to pay the
costs of refunding the Refunded Certificates, (ii) to fund any reserves
required under the Trust Agreement,
(iii) to pay costs of any Credit Support Instruments, (iv) to pay identified amounts owed under Hedge
Agreements, (v) to pay interest on the
Refunding Certificates, and (vi) to
pay costs of issuing the Refunding
Certificates. The Refunding Certificates of each series shall mature on
the dates and in the respective principal amounts set forth in the Purchase
Agreement for that series, consistent
with this Ordinance and the Trust
Agreement.
(b) Interest. The Refunding Certificates may be issued as obligations
bearing interest at fixed or variable
interest rates, based on the determination of the Director of Finance as to
the financial advantage to, and best
interests of, the City, as specified in
the Purchase Agreement. If the Director of Finance so determines that
Refunding Certificates shall be
issued as obligations bearing interest
at variable rates, then the method and

8
procedure by which the variable rate
of interest to be borne by the Refunding Certificates are to be determined
(whether by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or otherwise) shall be set forth in the
applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement; provided that no Refunding
Certificates shall bear interest at a
rate in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year (including any
Refunding Certificate held by a
provider of a Credit Support Instrument). The Director of Finance may
determine that the terms of a variable
rate series of Refunding Certificates
may or may not permit the holders to
tender their variable rate Refunding
Certificates for purchase by the City.
If the Director of Finance designates
any series of Refunding Certificates
as variable rate Certificates, and if
the holders of that series of Refunding Certificates are to be entitled to
tender those Certificates for purchase, then the Director of Finance
shall also designate in the Purchase
Agreement for those variable rate
Certificates (and may designate others, from time to time, in substitution
therefor), the tender agent or agents
(which may be the Trustee) and the
remarketing agent or agents (which
may be an Original Purchaser),
which designations shall be based on
the determination of the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that the parties so designated possess the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements with others in connection
with the delivery of the Refunding
Certificates, and from time to time
thereafter so long as the Refunding
Certificates are outstanding, as may
be determined by the Director of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for (i) the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, (ii) the rights and procedures
for tender, (iii) liquidity or credit support, (iv) repayment by the City of
any amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument, (v) the direct
purchase of tendered Refunding Certificates, and (vi) other arrangements in the best interests of the City.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to terminate any such
agreements if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such termination. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to enter
into agreements, from time to time so
long as the variable rate Refunding
Certificates are outstanding, supplementing or amending the applicable
Supplemental Trust Agreement for a
series of Refunding Certificates as
provided in Section 9. The Director of
Finance is authorized to pay any fees
associated with agreements entered
into or terminated pursuant to this
Section from proceeds of Refunding
Certificates, to the extent permitted
by the Trust Agreement or from Fund
Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF 001
or from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
(c)
Optional
and
Mandatory
Redemption. The Refunding Certificates of each series, and the corresponding principal component of
Base Rent, may be subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of

The City Record
the City, if and to the extent set forth
in the Purchase Agreement for that
series. Any Refunding Certificates so
determined to be subject to optional
redemption and maturing by their
stated terms after the earliest optional redemption date shall be subject to
redemption at the option of the City
on or after the earliest optional
redemption date in whole or in part on
any date at the redemption prices set
forth in the Purchase Agreement and
in accordance with the applicable
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement.
Refunding Certificates that are subject to optional redemption may be
subject to purchase by the City in lieu
of optional redemption to the extent
provided in the applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement. The Refunding
Certificates designated in the Purchase Agreement as term Certificates
subject to mandatory sinking fund
redemption shall be redeemed prior to
maturity on each mandatory redemption date designated in the Purchase
Agreement in the aggregate amount
of the sinking fund installment to be
paid on such mandatory redemption
date, all as provided in the Purchase
Agreement and in accordance with
the Supplemental Trust Agreement.
(d) Credit Support and Other
Instruments. The Director of Finance,
regardless of whether a series of
Refunding Certificates bears interest
at variable or fixed rates, is authorized to contract for one or more Credit Support Instruments, if the Director
of Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the Credit Support Instruments
will result in a savings in the cost of
the financing to the City. The costs of
such Credit Support Instruments may
be paid from proceeds of Refunding
Certificates or from Fund Nos. 11 SF
600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF 001 or from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose, as determined by the
Director of Finance.
(e) Base Rent. The City acknowledges that the aggregate principal
amount of Outstanding Certificates
shall be based on the aggregate principal component of Base Rent under
the Facility Lease and that the interest on the Certificates shall be based
on the interest components of Base
Rent. The Base Rent to be payable
under and in accordance with the
Facility Lease during any Lease
Term shall be an amount sufficient to
cover the amount of Certificate Payments on the Outstanding Certificates that are due and payable during
that Lease Term, and such Base Rent
shall be specified or determined in an
exhibit to the Facility Lease; provided, however, that the City’s payment
of Base Rent and Additional Rent is
Subject to Appropriation and Certification as provided in the Facility
Lease and nothing in the Facility
Lease, the Certificates, the Trust
Agreement, or any Hedge Agreement
constitutes or shall constitute a
pledge by the City, or an obligation of
the City, of any taxes or other moneys
to the payments due thereunder.
(f) Primary Offering Disclosure. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Original Purchaser, a disclosure document is appropriate relating to the
initial offering of one or more series
of Refunding Certificates, the Director of Finance, on behalf of the City
and in that officer’s official capacity,
is authorized to (i) cooperate with the
Original Purchaser in the preparation
of, and the making of modifications,
completions or changes of or supple-

16

January 9, 2013
ments to, such a disclosure document,
(ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent when the disclosure
document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document
and any supplements thereto in connection with the initial offering of the
applicable series of Refunding Certificates, and (iv) sign certificates,
statements or other documents in connection with the finality, accuracy
and completeness of that disclosure
document. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of any
disclosure statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
(g) Continuing Disclosure. If and to
the extent required by Rule 15c2-12
promulgated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or by
a Purchase Agreement in connection
with the sale of one or more series of
Refunding Certificates or by a remarketing agreement in connection with
remarketed Certificates, then, for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners from time to time of the
Refunding Certificates, the City
agrees to provide or cause to be provided such financial information and
operating data, audited financial
statements and notices of the occurrence of certain events, in such manner as may be required for purposes of
Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “Rule”). For that
purpose, the Director of Finance is
authorized on behalf of the City to
sign and deliver continuing disclosure agreements, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the
Trustee. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver any
related agreements, certificates and
other instruments, and to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing
disclosure agreements, including
timely provision of information and
notices as described above. The performance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it.
(h) Application for Ratings. If, in
the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications for
one or more ratings on Refunding
Certificates by one or more nationally-recognized rating agencies is necessary or desirable for marketing purposes, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare and submit
those applications, and to provide
information as may be required in
support of those applications for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
such rating, except to the extent paid
by the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of the
Refunding Certificates to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
(i) Application of Proceeds; Costs
of Issuance. The proceeds from the
sale of the Refunding Certificates
shall be deposited and applied as provided in the Supplemental Indenture
and for the purposes stated in this
Ordinance and are appropriated for
those purposes. Costs of issuing the
Refunding Certificates that are not
paid from those proceeds may be paid
from Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601
and 01 SF 001 or from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose,
as determined by the Director of
Finance.

January 9, 2013
Section 7. Sale of the Refunding
Certificates; Purchase Agreements.
The Director of Finance may sign and
deliver one or more Purchase Agreements for Refunding Certificates setting forth the conditions for delivery
of the Refunding Certificates that are
consistent with this Ordinance and
the Trust Agreement and that are
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for lease certificates of participation issued by governmental entities,
including, without limitation, representations as to the accuracy and
completeness of information contained in the disclosure document
described in Section 6 of this Ordinance. The Purchase Agreement shall
provide for the sale of the applicable
series of Refunding Certificates to
the Original Purchaser selected by
the Director of Finance and identified
in the Purchase Agreement, based on
an evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Refunding Certificates or
the terms upon which the Original
Purchaser has agreed to purchase the
Refunding Certificates.
Each Purchase Agreement shall set
forth the following, based on the written advice of a Financial Advisor,
consistent with this Ordinance and
the Trust Agreement:
(a) the aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Certificates issued;
(b) the Purchase Price for the
Refunding Certificates;
(c) whether any Refunding Certificates are to be subject to optional
redemption prior to maturity, and, if
so, the earliest optional redemption
date for those Refunding Certificates
subject to prior redemption, which
shall be not later than ten years from
the first interest payment date of the
applicable series, and the applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(d) the dates on which principal of
the Refunding Certificates is to be
paid, which shall be not later than
thirty-five (35) years from their
respective dates of issuance, with an
identification of whether the payment is due by stated maturity or by
mandatory sinking fund redemption
of Refunding Certificates of a particular maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne by
Refunding Certificates bearing interest at a fixed rate, the weighted average of which shall not exceed eight
percent (8%) as to Refunding Certificates of any series, and the method by
which the interest rate is to be determined for Refunding Certificates
bearing interest at variable rates,
consistent with Section 6;
(f) the particular Outstanding Certificates or portions thereof to be
Refunded Certificates;
(g) the title and series designation
for the Refunding Certificates;
(h) the amount, if any, and source
of any money to be deposited in the
Reserve Account in order to cause the
balance therein to equal the Reserve
Requirement, if and to the extent
required by the applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement, and any
determination as to whether there
shall be a special reserve fund for the
Refunding Certificates of any series,
separate from the common Reserve
Account, or a surety or insurance policy, bank letter or line of credit, or
other form of credit or liquidity facility enhancing the security for Refunding Certificates of that series in lieu
of a funded reserve fund;

The City Record
(i) whether any Refunding Certificates are to be secured by or payable
from a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Certificates and the
corresponding terms of Base Rent as
so determined within the limitations
set forth in this Ordinance and as so
specified and set forth in the Purchase Agreement will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
Section 8. Remarketing. In the
event that the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that it
is advantageous to the City to convert
the interest on any Outstanding Certificates bearing interest at variable
rates to fixed interest rates for a period of time or to maturity or to convert
the interest on any Outstanding Certificates or Refunding Certificates to
a different variable rate period or
mode, or to terminate or take other
actions with respect to any existing
Credit Support Instrument that will
require a tender and remarketing of
any Outstanding Certificates under
the Trust Agreement (such conversion or other actions and the tender
and remarketing being collectively
referred to in this Section as “remarketing”), the City shall undertake the
remarketing of those Certificates in
accordance with the Trust Agreement. In connection with any remarketing of Certificates, the Director of
Finance is authorized to take such
actions as the Director determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, will facilitate the
remarketing of the Certificates or
otherwise be in the best interests of
the City, including without limitation, obtaining one or more Credit
Support Instruments, terminating
any Credit Support Instrument, and
entering into agreements with one or
more purchasers for their direct purchase of the remarketed Certificates
in lieu of a public offering of the
Refunding Certificates by a remarketing agent. In the event the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that it is necessary in connection with the remarketing to supplement or amend the Facility Lease,
the Ground Lease or the Trust Agreement in order to address current market conditions or to permit the use of
or to terminate a Credit Support
Instrument or to otherwise obtain
financing arrangements advantageous to the City, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized to
sign and deliver a Supplemental
Lease and a Supplemental Ground
Lease and to signify approval of the
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to satisfy any special
reserve fund requirement for any
series of Certificates then Outstanding under the Trust Agreement by the
deposit of a Credit Support Instrument in lieu of cash, as permitted and
more specifically provided in the
Trust Agreement, and to apply cash
released from such special reserve
fund to the payment of costs of remarketing. To the extent the costs of
remarketing are not paid from any
cash released from such special
reserve fund, those costs may be paid,
as determined by the Director of
Finance, from the proceeds of remarketing or from Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11
SF 601 and 01 SF 001 or from other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that
purpose.

17

9
The Director of Finance is authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with
any remarketing under the same
terms and conditions as set forth in
Section 6 of this Ordinance with
respect to the issuance of Refunding
Certificates. The Director of Finance
or other officer of the City, as appropriate under the Charter, is authorized to take such actions or cause to
be taken such actions as are necessary to obtain and maintain the
desired tax status of any Outstanding
Certificates, and the covenants and
authorizations in Section 10 of this
Ordinance shall apply to any converted Certificates. The Director of
Finance and other City officials, as
appropriate under the Charter, are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate
to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Section. The Director of Finance, the Director of Law
and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized
to make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the remarketing of Certificates and to take all actions necessary to effect the remarketing of Certificates under the terms of this Ordinance, the Facility Lease and the
Trust Agreement. The Clerk of Council or other official of the City, as
appropriate under the Charter, shall
furnish the Trustee a true transcript
of proceedings certified by the Clerk
or other official, of all proceedings
had with reference to the remarketing of Certificates along with such
information for the records as is necessary to determine the validity of the
remarketing.
Section 9. Authorization of Supplemental Ground Leases, Supplemental
Leases and Supplemental Trust
Agreements; Additional Documents.
In connection with the issuance of
any series of Refunding Certificates,
the Mayor and the Director of Finance
are authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver
one or more Supplemental Leases and,
if necessary or appropriate in connection with that issuance, one or more
Supplemental Ground Leases, and to
signify approval of one or more Supplemental
Trust
Agreements,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, and not inconsistent with this Ordinance and the
Purchase Agreement. The determination by those officers that a Supplemental Lease, Supplemental Ground
Lease or Supplemental Trust Agreement is not inconsistent with this
Ordinance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of
that Supplemental Lease, Supplemental Ground Lease or Supplemental
Trust Agreement by those officers.
Subject to the Facility Lease as
theretofore amended, any Supplemental Lease may contain amendments to
the Facility Lease, as theretofore
amended, and, subject to the Trust
Agreement as theretofore amended,
any Supplemental Trust Agreement
may contain amendments to the Trust
Agreement, as theretofore amended,
to permit the City increased flexibility for the use of financial or credit
structures and techniques determined
by the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be in the best interests of
the City. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver a continuing covenant agreement or similar agreement with an Original Purchaser in connection with its direct
purchase of Refunding Certificates in

10
lieu of a public offering of Refunding
Certificates, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor that
entering into such agreement is in the
best interests of the City.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Clerk, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate
under the Charter, are authorized to
sign and deliver such instruments,
certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance, the Purchase Agreements,
the Supplemental Ground Leases, the
Supplemental Leases, the Supplemental Trust Agreements, the Ground
Lease, the Facility Lease, the Trust
Agreement, the escrow agreements
and the Hedge Agreements.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Law and other City
officials, as appropriate under the
Charter, are authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf of
the City to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the
delivery of each series of Refunding
Certificates to the Original Purchaser
and to take all actions necessary to
effect due signing, authentication
and delivery of each series of Refunding Certificates under the terms of
this Ordinance, the Supplemental
Leases, the Supplemental Ground
Leases, the Supplemental Trust
Agreements, the Purchase Agreements and the Trust Agreement. The
Clerk of Council or other official of
the City, as appropriate under the
Charter, shall furnish the Original
Purchaser a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or
other official, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
Refunding Certificates along with
such information for the records as is
necessary to determine the regularity
and validity of the issuance of the
Refunding Certificates.
Section 10. Tax Covenants. Upon
the determination of the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the
financial advantage of the City and in
the City’s best interests that all or a
portion of a series of Refunding Certificates or remarketed Certificates
be issued or remarketed as obligations the interest on which is excluded from gross income for federal
income tax purposes or as obligations
that provide for federal tax credits to
the holders or issuers thereof, the
Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer having
responsibility for the issuance of
Refunding Certificates or remarketing of Certificates, is, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing or
with any other officer or employee of
the City, authorized to cooperate with
the Original Purchaser or remarketing agent and the Trustee by making,
on behalf of the City, such covenants
and representations in the Facility
Lease as are appropriate and necessary to achieve and maintain the
desired tax treatment or status of the
Facility Lease and the Certificates.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City having responsibility for the
issuance of Refunding Certificates or
remarketing of Certificates is hereby
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval, or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect to
the Facility Lease and the Certificates as the City is permitted to or
required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or
status of the Facility Lease and the
Certificates or the interest compo-

The City Record
nents thereof or assisting compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such compliance, reducing the rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Facility Lease and the Certificates, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript for the
Certificates, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the proceeds from the sale of the Certificates, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax status of the Facility
Lease and the Certificates.
The City hereby covenants it will
take or cause to be taken such actions
that may be required of it for the
interest components of Base Rent and
interest on the Certificates to achieve
and maintain the intended treatment
and status for federal income tax purposes and that it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that treatment and status.
Each covenant made pursuant to
this Section with respect to a series of
Certificates is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the principal of or interest on which is paid
from proceeds of that series of Certificates (and, if different, the original
issue and any refunding issues in a
series of refundings), to the extent
such compliance is necessary to
assure the tax status of the Certificates of that series, and the officers
identified above are authorized to
take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
Section to take with respect to the
Certificates of that series.
Section 11. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance or to negotiate any Hedge Agreements. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any Financial Advisor so retained. Any Financial Advisor or consultant employed under the
authority of this Ordinance shall be
disinterested in the transaction and
be independent of the underwriters or
counterparties and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 12. Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of Finance
is authorized to appoint a successor
Trustee in the event that the current
Trustee, U.S. Bank, National Association, shall resign or be removed, or be
dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting as Trustee under the
Trust Agreement, or in case it shall be
taken under the control of any public
officer or officers or of a receiver
appointed by a court, in accordance
with the Trust Agreement.
Section 13. Captions, Headings, and
Section References. The captions and
headings in this Ordinance are solely
for convenience of reference and in no
way define, limit, or describe the

18

January 9, 2013
scope or intent of any Sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs,
or clauses hereof. Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance
unless otherwise indicated.
Section 14. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Certificates or matters authorized herein. Nothing in
this Ordinance is intended to, and no
provision hereof shall be applied in
any manner as would, impair the
obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, indentures, or other agreements or contracts made or entered
into by the City.
Section 15. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance with
all applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council.
Section 16. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section is
hereby declared to be independent,
and the finding or holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph
of any section to be invalid or void
shall not be deemed or held to affect
the validity of any other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of its
committees concerning and relating
to the passage of this Ordinance were
taken in an open meeting of this
Council or committees, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
those formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, all in compliance
with the law.
Section 18.  Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by this Ordinance shall expire three years from
the effective date of this Ordinance. If
a Purchase Agreement for Refunding
Certificates or agreement for the purchase of remarketed Certificates is
entered into or a preliminary disclosure document is distributed with
respect to Refunding Certificates or
remarketed Certificates under the
authority of this Ordinance at any
time within the three-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to those Refunding
Certificates or remarketed Certificates. The Director of Finance shall
notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of
any Refunding Certificates or conversion and remarketing of Certificates
under the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 19. Refinancing. This Council finds and determines that this is
an Ordinance providing for the refinancing of bonds, notes or other securities of the City within the meaning
of Section 64 of the City Charter.
Section 20.  Emergency. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance.

The City Record

January 9, 2013
Ord. No. 28-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants for sustainable operation
and optimization relating to acquiring energy management, engineering, technical and troubleshooting
services to help execute an energy
management plan for a period of one
year with two one-year options to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more con-

sultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
acquire energy management, engineering, technical and troubleshooting services to help execute an energy management plan, for a period of
one year with two one-year options to
renew.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services

11
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001, RQS
2002, RL 2012-141.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 25-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An ordinance changing the Use and Height Districts of lands on the north and south sides of Lorain Avenue between
West Boulevard and W. 94th Street shown shaded on the attached map to Local Retail Business and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2428).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West Boulevard at its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Rd.;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West Boulevard to its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation
of the northerly line of Regina Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said northerly line of Regina Avenue through its intersection with the centerline of W.
101 Street to its intersection with the westerly line of the Wensink Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 23,
Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said westerly line also being known as the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 005-19-058;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the aforementioned Wensink Subdivision; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 005-19-058;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
W. 100th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 100 Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Lorain Rd.;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Rd. to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 96th Street;
Thence northerly along said prolongation and said centerline of W. 96th Street to its intersection with the westerly
prolongation of the centerline of Sommer Court;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said centerline and continuing along its easterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of W. 95th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 95th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Lorain Rd.;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Rd. to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 94 Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Henley Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of W.
95th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 95th Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Lorain Rd.;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Lorain Rd. to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of W. 99th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 99th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Henley Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Henley Avenue and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the southeasterly line of Sublot No. 7 in the Anna L. Weitz Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 23, Page 21
of Cuyahoga County Map Records; said parcel also being known as part of Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 017-01-007;
Thence south westerly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of Sublot No. 8 in the aforementioned Anna L. Weitz Subdivision, said line also being known as the easterly line of Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 017-01-006;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly
line of Sublot No. 10 in the aforementioned Anna L. Weitz Subdivsion (PPN 017-01-005);
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Denison Avenue;

19

12

The City Record

January 9, 2013

Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Denison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line of the Lorain St. and Denison Av. Land Co. Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 31, Page
3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 017-09-002);
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West Boulevard;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West Boulevard to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Rd. and the
principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2428 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

20

January 9, 2013
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 20-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Ordinance No. 1642-12, passed December 3, 2012, relating to Day Care Center fees, applications, inspections and
contagious disease notification, to
repeal existing Sections 227.03, 227.04,
227.05, 227.33, 227.34 and 227.35.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 164212, passed December 3, 2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1a. That existing Sections
227.03, 227.04, 227.05, 227.33, 227.34 and
227.35 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 924-09, passed August 5,
2009, are repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 21-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
GDS Associates, Inc. for professional
services necessary for resource beneficial use analysis and power supply
plan for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with GDS Associates, Inc. for professional services
necessary for resource beneficial use
analysis and power supply plan for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power on the basis of its proposal
dated December 12, 2012, for the
Department of Public Utilities. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 58 SF 001, Request No.
RQN 2005, RL 2012-069.
Section 2. That the contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
terms and conditions as the Director
deems necessary, including a provision requiring the contractor to comply with federal equal employment
opportunity (“EEO”) standards.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

The City Record
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 22-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of the Harvard Avenue bridge
over Wheeling & Lake Erie Railroad
Company railroad just west of East
103rd Street; authorizing the Director
of Capital Projects to enter into contracts with the State of Ohio; and
causing payment to the State of Ohio
for the City’s share of the improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 74511, passed August 17, 2011, this Council authorized the City of Cleveland to
cooperate with the Director of Transportation for the rehabilitation of the
Harvard Avenue bridge over Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway Company
railroad just west of East 103rd Street
(the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by
assuming and bearing one hundred
percent (100%) of the entire cost of
the Improvement, less the amount of
Federal-aid NOACA funds set aside by
the Director of Transportation for the
financing of this Improvement from
funds allocated by the Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department
of Transportation, and further, the
City agrees to assume and bear one
hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
Preliminary Engineering, excluding
in-house preliminary engineering
charges incurred by the State, and
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $484,184.00, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the legislation proposing cooperating and
has caused to be made plans and specifications and an estimate of costs
and expense for the Improvement and
has transmitted copies of the same to
this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed
with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with the State and/or their
pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the
Project and to enter into contracts
with the Director of Transportation
necessary to complete the Improvement. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
empowered to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.

21

13
Section 3. (a) That the City shall, at
its own expense, make all removals
and/or relocations of publicly-owned
utilities which do not comply with the
reimbursement provisions of the
ODOT Utilities Manual. Publiclyowned facilities which do comply
with the reimbursement provisions of
the ODOT Utilities Manual will be
removed and/or relocated at project
expense, exclusive of betterments.
(b) The removals and/or relocation
of all utilities shall be done in such a
manner as not to interfere with the
operation of the contractor constructing the Improvement and that the
utility removals and/or relocations
shall be approved by the State and
performed in accordance with the provisions of the ODOT Construction and
materials Specifications.
Section 4. That on completion of the
Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance; and
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the State and hold
the right-of-way inviolate for public
highway purposes and permit no
signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands, or other private installations
within the limits of the right-of-way.
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;
(e) Regulate parking in accordance with Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code, unless otherwise controlled by City ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to transmit
to the State three (3) certified copies
of this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect, and it shall become the
basis
for
proceeding
with
the
Improvement.
Section 6. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546, 52 SF 001 and 54 SF 001, RQS 0103,
RL 2012-194.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 30-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1651-12,
passed November 19, 2012 that authorizes the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
for the professional services necessary to provide for implementation of
an operations and sustainability plan
for Cleveland City Council.

The City Record

14
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1651-12, passed November
19, 2012 is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Council President is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
(“Consultant”) for the professional
services necessary to provide for the
implementation of an operations and
sustainability plan for Cleveland City
Council, including the services set
forth in Consultant’s 2013 Statement
of Work and those services as may be
directed by the Clerk of Council or her
designee. This agreement shall be
entered into as of January 1, 2013 and
shall be for a term of one year, concluding December 31, 2013.
The agreement shall be certified in
an amount not to exceed $66,000.00
from fund 01, dept. 0101, subfund 001,
and object code 6320.
Section 2. That the existing Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1651-12, passed
November 19, 2012 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 16-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal
of Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the
use of low-income housing tax credits
for new construction of Aspen Place
apartments on Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates housing credits for affordable housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
proposing to construct 34 affordable
apartments in a three story mixed-use
building located on Lorain Avenue at
West 61st Street, Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, 100% of these homes will
be affordable to families with
incomes at or below 60% of the area
median income and no housing units
will be market rate; and
Whereas, 10% of these housing
units will be affordable to households
whose annual income is at or below
30% of the area median income; and
Whereas, the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization’s proposal will include retail on
the ground floor and will be built on
vacant land currently owned by the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, within the nationally
renowned EcoVillage and will serve
as a prime example of transit-oriented
development and spur additional private
investment
along
Lorain
Avenue; and

Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
declares its support of the proposal of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for the use
of low-income housing tax credits for
new construction of Aspen Place
apartments on Lorain Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the
Executive
Director
of
the
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 17-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal
of Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the
use of low-income housing tax credits
for the preservation of three apartment buildings on Detroit Avenue in
Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates housing credits for affordable housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
proposing to preserve and rehabilitate 45 units of affordable housing in
3 separate apartment buildings located on Detroit Avenue: the Kennedy
Building at 6425 Detroit Avenue;
Muirville Apartments at 8001-05
Detroit Avenue; and Detroit Chateau
at 7918 Detroit Avenue; and; and
Whereas, 100% of these homes will
be affordable to families with
incomes at or below 60% of the area
median income and no housing units
will be market rate; and
Whereas, at least 50% of these
housing units will be affordable to
households whose annual income is at
or below 50% of the area median
income; and
Whereas, 10% of these housing
units will be affordable to households
whose annual income is at or below
30% of the area median income; and
Whereas, the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization’s proposal will make major capital improvements to the buildings and
each unit will receive approximately
$50,000 worth of improvements; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

22

January 9, 2013
Section 1. That this Council hereby
declares its support of the proposal of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for the use
of low-income housing tax credits for
the preservation of three apartment
buildings on Detroit Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Executive Director of the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 18-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal
of Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the
use of low-income housing tax credits
for rehabilitation of the TemplinBradley Company building at 5700
Detroit Avenue.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates housing credits for affordable housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
proposing to rehabilitate and adapt
the Templin-Bradley Company building which is a vacant warehousing
facility, into 30 mixed-income housing
units at 5700 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, 10% of the units will be
affordable to individuals or families
whose incomes are at or below 30% of
the area median income; and
Whereas, 10% of the units will be
affordable to individuals or families
whose incomes are at or below 35% of
the area median income; and
Whereas, 30% of the units will be
affordable to individuals or families
whose incomes are at or below 60% if
the area median income; and
Whereas, 50% of the units will be
market rate; and
Whereas, the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization’s proposal is a 7.75 million dollar
proposal that will preserve the historic structure and provide a much
needed anchor at the eastern gateway
of the Gordon Square Arts District;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
declares its support of the proposal of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for the use
of low-income housing tax credits for
rehabilitation of the Templin-Bradley
Company building at 5700 Detroit
Avenue.

January 9, 2013
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Executive Director of the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 19-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the Cleveland Housing Network Inc.’s application to the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency for low-income housing tax
credits for the Slavic Village Green
Homes I project.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates lowincome housing credits for affordable
housing developments throughout
Ohio using a competitive proposal
process; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain affordable housing in Cleveland’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, Slavic Village Green
Homes I will consist of a mix of substantially rehabilitated single-family
homes and the construction of new
single family homes in the Slavic Village neighborhood, which is one of
the six Strategic Investment Initiative areas; and
Whereas, the Slavic Village Green
Homes I project will strengthen and
support the existing housing investment within the Slavic Village neighborhood, including Opportunity Housing, a for-sale market rate project,
Cleveland Green Homes, Cleveland
Green Homes East, Cleveland Green
Homes II, Cleveland NSP Homes I,
and Cleveland Green Homes III; and
Whereas, Slavic Village is nationally recognized as the epicenter of the
national home mortgage foreclosure
crisis that continues to hit Ohio, and
in particular, the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, working together for
over 30 years, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. and its non-profit development partners and the City of Cleveland have demonstrated the ability to
use tax credits to leverage local
resources and complete successful
projects that meet community development objectives concerning vacant
properties and provide needed affordable housing to low-income families;
and
Whereas, in the current environment of large numbers of vacant single family homes, a weak homeownership market, and an increasing
poverty rate, this tool is needed more
than ever; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
remains committed to a continued
partnership with the Cleveland Housing Network Inc. and the development
of Slavic Village Green Homes I project, as we work together to address
the foreclosure crisis and meet the
needs of our low income families for
decent affordable housing; and

The City Record

15

Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Cleveland Housing Network
Inc.’s application to the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency for low-income housing tax credits for the Slavic Village
Green Homes I project.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Robert S. Curry,
Executive Director, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.

Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General Store
#13729, 15707 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
22348151420; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.

Res. No. 31-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 15707 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Dolgen Midwest, LLC, DBA
Dollar General Store #13729, 15707 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
Permanent Number 22348151420; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

Res. No. 32-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D1 and D2 Liquor Permit to 6816 Superior Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit from Margaret W. Foxworth,
DBA Johnnies South of the Border,
5803 Outhwaite Avenue, 1st floor and
partial basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 2861689 to
Margaret W. Foxworth, DBA Johnnies South of the Border, 6816 Superior Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 28616890001; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.

23

16
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit from Margaret W. Foxworth,
DBA Johnnies South of the Border,
5803 Outhwaite Avenue, 1st floor and
partial basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 2861689 to
Margaret W. Foxworth, DBA Johnnies South of the Border, 6816 Superior Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 28616890001; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 33-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at 11609
Miles Road and repealing Resolution
No. 1139-12 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to 11609
Miles Road by Resolution No. 1139-12
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to Habibi,
Inc., DBA Frank’s Marathon, 11609
Miles Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 3479133 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1139-12, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 34-13.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill Road and repealing Resolution No. 1486-12, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 2603 Woodhill
Road by Resolution No. 1486-12 adopted by the Council on October 15, 2012;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Mos Woodhill Deli,
Inc., 2603 Woodhill Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, Permanent No. 6192207, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1486-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 35-13.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A, D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3194 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement, and repealing
Resolution No. 1032-12 objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D1, D2, D3, D3A, D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 3194 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement by Resolution No.
1032-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A, D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
to 2109 Tate, Inc., DBA Teri O’s
Lounge, 3194 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio

24

January 9, 2013
44109, Permanent Number 9116320005
be and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1139-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Westbrook, seconded by Council
Member Mitchell and unanimously
carried that the absence of Council
Members
Zachary
Reed
and
Matthew Zone be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:57 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 14, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 2, 2013
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 2,
2013 at 10:37 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
D.
Anthony,
Acting
Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:

The City Record

January 9, 2013
Resolution No. 1-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
sub-consultants by AECOM Technical Services, Inc. under Contract No.
PS2012*319 for professional consulting services to provide the General
Engineering Services VII project,
which requires general engineering,
architectural, and other services
including, but not limited to, design
services, construction inspection services, structural and geotechnical
analysis services, permit application
services,
materials
testing
and
analysis services, risk assessment
services, cost-benefit analysis services, laboratory and monitoring services, environmental and safety consulting services, remediation and
disposal services, hazardous material remediation and disposal services,
water quality and treatment process
assessments and analysis services,
and other related professional consulting services needed for a period
of four years, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities
on
an
as-needed
basis,
is
approved:
Sub-consultant

Work
Percentage

GPD Group

$ 50,000.00
1.424%

MWH Americas, Inc.

$400,000.00
11.394%

McLemore Consulting
Associates, Inc.

$

5,450.00
0.155%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 2-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on November 9,
2012, for Ontario Street Area Sewer
Rehabilitation Project, for the Division of Water Pollution Control.
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
740-08, passed June 9, 2008, are
rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 3-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Boyas Excavating, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of disposal of debris at landfills, items 1 and
3, for the various Divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on November 7, 2012 under the
authority of Ordinance No. 890-12,
passed August 8, 2012, which on the

basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $3,227,250.00 (0%),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 4-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Lakefront Automotive
Parts, Inc. for all estimated quantity
of
automotive
and
truck
parts/service (all items), for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on November 9, 2012,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $250,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid; and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirement
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Poly Services, Inc.
CSB/MBE
$25,000.00 (10.00%)
AAMCO Transmissions
CSB/FBE
$25,000.00 (10.00%)
E & K Products $ 5,000.00 (02.00%)
Midtown Service, Inc.
$ 5,000,00 (02.00%)
Erie Shores Radiator
$ 4,000.00 (01.60%)
APO Pumps & Compressor
$ 2,000.00 (00.80%)
CCI North Coast $10,000.00 (04.00%)
Valley Ford Truck, Inc.
$ 5,000.00 (02.00%)
Zoresco Equipment Co.
$ 2,000.00 (00.80%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

25

17
Resolution No. 5-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 535-12, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1456-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 14, 2012 and November 12, 2012,
respectively, the firm of Seabury
Airline Planning Group, LLC (“Consultant”), is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified persons
or firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control as the firm of consultants available to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City to provide
professional services necessary to
perform air and cargo service consulting and related services, for a
period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew, for the
Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with
Seabury
Airline
Planning
Group, LLC for the above-mentioned
services, based upon its proposal
dated July 6, 2012, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide that the compensation to Seabury Airline Planning
Group, LLC for the services authorized shall not exceed $125,000.00 per
year, and shall contain such other
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultants by Seabury Airline Planning
Group, LLC is approved:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Epstein Design Partners
0.0%-CSB/FBE
To be determined
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 6-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Vandra Brothers, Inc.
for the public improvement of Madison Avenue Rehabilitation (West
Blvd. to W. 65th Street), all items,
for the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, received on November
30, 2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 593-11 passed by Cleveland City Council on June 6, 2011,
upon a unit price basis for the
improvement,
in
the
aggregate
amount of $3,884,320.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Vandra Brothers, Inc.
for
the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:

The City Record

18
Down to Earth
(CSB) — $55,000.00 — (1.4%)
Trafftech, Inc.
(CSB) — $460,000.00 — (11.8%)
Tech Ready Mix
(CSB) — $350,000.00 — (9.0%)
Fabrizi Trucking and Paving, Inc.
(CSB) — $441,077.00 — (11.4%)
Cuyahoga Supply and Tool, Inc.
(CSB) — $70,000.00 — (1.8%)
Solar Testing, Inc.
(CSB) — $32,000.00 — (0.8%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 7-13.
By Director Butler.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1335-12, passed December 3, 2012 by
the Council of the City of Cleveland,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, by and at
direction of the Board of Control, to
sell certain City-owned property no
longer needed for public use, located at 9127 Miles Avenue and further
identified as Permanent Parcel Nos.
134-08-032 and 134-08-064, as more
specifically described in the ordinance, to Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc. (NEON),
at a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control, and other valuable considerations, for the purpose of providing a new access point for accessible comprehensive primary health
care services to Cleveland residents,
at a sliding fee scale; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1335-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on December 3,
2012, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 134-08-032
and 134-08-064, as described in the
ordinance, to Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health
Services,
Inc.
(NEON) for the price of $1.00 and
other valuable considerations, which
this Board determines to be not less
than fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are requested to
execute and deliver the official
deed(s) of the City of Cleveland conveying the property, which document(s) shall contain such additional terms and conditions as may
be specified by the Director of Law.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 8-13.
By Directors Cox and Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. W. Clark Company, Inc. (CSB/LPE) for the public
improvement of Front Entry Door
Replacement Police Headquarters

January 9, 2013

Building, for the Base Bid Items A
and B and Optional Items 1 and 2.3,
for the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Department of
Public Works, received on July 27,
2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 533-12, passed on June 4,
2012, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $69,262.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Directors of the Department of Public Works and the Office
of Capital Projects are authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by R.
W. Clark Company, Inc. (CSB/LPE)
for
the
aforementioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Lorain Glass Co. (other)

$39,104.00
N.A.

Work Best Electric (CSB/FBE)
$ 4,200.00
6.064%
Don Koo Associates (CSB/MBE)
$ 1,500.00
2.166%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 9-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Resolution No. 512-17,
adopted by this Board of Control on
October 2, 2012, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 607-10, passed June
7, 2010 by the Cleveland City Council, authorized the Director of Public Works to enter into contract with
Nerone
&
Sons
for
the
public
improvement at Historic League
Park Restoration and Site Improvements in the aggregate amount of
$6,338,382.72, and approved various
subcontractors; and
Whereas,
Nerone
&
Sons
has
requested the City’s consent to
remove and to add certain firms as
subcontractors for the project and to
modify the participation of certain
other previously approved subcontractors; and
Whereas,
the
Director
of
the
Office of Equal Opportunity has
determined that the removal and
addition of subcontractors to Nerone
& Sons as requested would increase
its
bid
commitment
for
MBE/FBE/CSB subcontractor participation in the project; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 512-12, adopted by
this Board October 2, 2012, authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into contract with Nerone &
Sons for the public improvement of
Historic League Park Restoration
and Site Improvements, is amended
by deleting “Precision Engineering”
as an approved subcontractor and
by adding the following as approved
subcontractors at the amounts stated:

26

SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

R. J. Platten Contracting (CSB)
$319,082.00
5.748%
Krusoe Sign (CSB/FBE) $ 50,000.00
0.901%
Be it further resolved that Resolution No. 512-12, is amended by substituting the amounts stated below
as the participation of the following
approved subcontractors:
SUBCONTRACTORS

MCM (CSB)

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE
$2,374,069.00
42.766%

Gateway Electric (CSB/MBE)
$ 620,000.00
11.169%
Ballast Construction (CSB/FBE)
$ 158,348.50
2.852%
Tech Ready Mix (CSB/MBE)
$ 100,000.00
1.801%
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
512-12 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 10-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R & R Truck Sales, Inc.,
for an estimated quantity of nine
cab and chassis with automated
refuse bodies, and related equipment, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, for the period of one year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on October 5, 2012, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 57012, passed by Cleveland City Council on April 30, 2012, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $2,476,620.00 (Net),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractors by R & R Truck Sales, Inc. is
approved:
Subcontractor

Best Equipment

Percentage
Amount
NA
$1,194,030.00

All Points Systems, LTD.
$

NA
58,815.00

The City Record

January 9, 2013
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 11-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of VanCuren Services, Inc.,
for an estimated quantity of Citywide tree/stump removal, all Items,
for the Division of Park Maintenance, Department of Public Works,
for the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract,
with
a
one-year
renewal
option, received on November 2, 2012,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $171,557.00 (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the specified goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractor
by
VanCuren
Services,
Inc.
is
approved:
Subcontractor

Danzey Landscaping

Percentage
Amount
0%
$21,170.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 12-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of F. Buddie Contracting, Ltd. (CSB/LPE), for the public
improvement of 1st District Police
Station Structural Improvements, for
Base Bid Items A and B and Optional Item #3 for the Division of Architecture
and
Site
Development
Department
of
Public
Works,
received on November 28, 2012, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 45311, passed on May 16, 2011, upon a
gross price basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$86,550.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid; and
the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by F.
Buddie Contracting Co. (CSB/LPE)
for
the
aforementioned
public
improvement is approved:

SUBCONTRACTORS

19

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Fabrication Group (CSB/FBE)
$6,638.00
7.670%
Tech Ready Mix (CSB/MBE)
$2,500.00
2.889%
Automatic Mechanical (CSB/MBE)
$1,500.00
1.733%

Krusoe Sign (CSB/FBE expired)
$ 525.00
0.607%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 13-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. W. Clark Co., Inc.
(CSB/LPE), for the public improvement of Swimming Pool Improvements at Various Recreation Centers, for Base Bid Items A and B
and Optional Items #1-#6 for the
Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Department of Public
Works, received on November 28,
2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 534-12, passed on June 4,
2012, upon a gross price basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $611,271.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized
to
enter
into
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
W. Clark Co., Inc. (CSB/LPE) for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

R & R Mechanical (CSB/MBE)
$101,500.00
16.605%
O.P. Aquatics (CSB/FBE)
$ 45,317.00
7.414%
Work Best Electric (CSB/FBE)
$ 25,800.00
4.221%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 14-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. J. Platten Contracting Co. (CSB), for the public
improvement
of
Lonnie
Burten
Water Slide Improvements, for Base
Bid Items 1-57 and add Alternate

27

Items 1AA, 2AA and 18AA including
the 5% contingency for the Division
of Architecture and Site Development, Department of Public Works,
received on December 5, 2012, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 53412, passed on June 4, 2012, upon a
unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $628,420.01,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Department of Public Works is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.J.
Platten Contracting Co. (CSB) for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Designor Pools Limited (other)
$155,000.00
24.665%
Whitewater West, Ltd. (other)
$104,380.00
16.610%
Harrington Electric (other)
$ 35,200.00
5.601%
Ramos Trucking (CSB/MBE)
$ 30,000.00
4.774%
Rockport Ready Mix (CSB/FBE)
$ 20,000.00
3.183%
Lakeside Supply (CSB)

$ 17,995.00
2.864%

Krusoe Sign (CSB/FBE expired)
$15,970.00
2.541%
Great Northern Fence (other)
$ 12,542.50
1.996%
Carrick’s Landscaping (other)
$ 4,100.00
0.652%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 15-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 111-01-074 located on East 110th
Street in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

20
Whereas, Great Lakeview, LLC
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for commercial/industrial construction; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Great Lakeview,
LLC for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
111-01-074
located on East 110th Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $500.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 16-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
104-20-075
located
on
Utica
Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Dwight Fleming has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community

The City Record
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Dwight Fleming
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-075 located
on Utica Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00. which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 17-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent No.
132-24-058 located at 6716 Clement
Avenue in Ward 12, and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Frances T. Glus has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Frances T. Glus
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 132-24-058 located
at 6716 Clement Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner us best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

28

January 9, 2013
Resolution No. 18-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-15-074 located at 1328 East
65th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Debra Jones has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it,
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Debra Jones for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 104-15-074 located at
1328 East 65th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 19-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas. under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-20-043 located at 5613 Quimby Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

January 9, 2013
Whereas, Marvin Linder has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Marvin Linder for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-043 located at
5613 Quimby Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 20-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-16-034 located at 8908 Birchdale Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Bernice McIntyre has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community

The City Record
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Bernice McIntyre
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 107-16-034 located
at 8908 Birchdale Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 21-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 121-18-075 located at 2236 East
103rd Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas. Darrell Paul has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Darrell Paul for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 121-18-075 located at
2236 East 103rd Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

29

21
Resolution No. 22-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-13-159 located at 1430 East
94th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Beatrice Wilson has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Beatrice Wilson
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 107-13-159 located
at 1430 East 94th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask, Acting Director Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the

The City Record

22
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-205: 3675 East 65th
Street (Ward 12)
Mosinski Funeral Homes, Inc.,
owner, appeals to change use from
a funeral home to a community center in a one and one-half story building located in a B1 Local Retail
Business District; subject to the limitations under Section 343.01, the
proposed use is not permitted and
first permitted in a General Retail
District in accordance with Section
343.11(b)(2)(L) and the regulations
in Section 347.12; a required parking
area equal to three times the gross
floor area, 5500/300 equals 55 spaces
and none are proposed contrary to
Section 349.04(e); and by the restrictions under Sections 347.12(a) and
(2), no such use shall be established
within 500 feet of a residential district, day care center, kindergarten,
elementary or secondary school, public library, church, playground, public or nonprofit recreation or community center and not within 500
feet of another such use, pursuant
to the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-222: 3610 Superior
Avenue (Ward 8)
3620 Superior Avenue LLC, owner,
appeals for an expansion of use
within an existing restaurant/bar to
include entertainment (dance) use
in a Semi-Industry District; subject
to the location regulations under
Section 347.12(a), no such use shall
be established within 500 feet of a
residence district or day care center,
kindergarten, elementary or secondary
school,
public
library,
church, playground, public or nonprofit recreation or community center according to the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-223: 1885 West 58th
Street (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations

under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 438 square feet and a gross
floor area of 741 is proposed; and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required and contrary to 5 feet for
the front two-thirds of the lot and
10 feet for the rear one-third, a
depth
of
2.09’
is
proposed
for
required side street yards, contrary
to Sections 357.04 and 357.05 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-224: 5727 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 554 square feet and a gross
floor area of 782 is proposed and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-225: 5739 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 502 square feet and a gross
floor area of 814 is proposed, and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-226: 5729 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 554 square feet and a gross
floor area of 782 is proposed and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear

30

January 9, 2013
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-227: 5731 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 355 square feet and a gross
floor area of 544 is proposed and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-228: 5733 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 502 square feet and a gross
floor area of 726 is proposed and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-229: 5735 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot
area or 503 square feet and a gross
floor area of 748 is proposed and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-230: 5737 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Case Development LLC, owner,
appeals to construct a fee simple
townhouse on vacant property located in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 337.03 a townhouse is
not permitted in a Two-Family District;
and
pursuant
to
Section
355.04(b) in Area District B and C,
the maximum gross floor area shall
not exceed one-half times the lot

The City Record

January 9, 2013
area or 355 square feet and a gross
floor area of 544 is proposed and
contrary to Section 353.01 a building
height of approximately 40 feet
exceeds the limit of 35 feet; proposing no front yard depth and a rear
yard of 5 feet where 20 feet is
required in accordance with the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-231: 5409 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Silverstar
Ohio
Holdings
LLC,
owner, appeals to change use of an
existing one family residence to a
two family use on a 36’ x 120’ parcel in a B1 Two-Family District; contrary to the limitations under Section 355.05(b) a minimum lot size of
4,320 square feet is proposed contrary to 4,800 that is required, and
a minimum lot width of 36 feet
where 40 feet is required according
to the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 7, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
7, 2013, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-213: 3914 Arnold
Avenue
Litsandra Mulero appealed from a
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau, Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division for failure to comply with Section 551.111(B); penalty
reduced to $250.00.
Calendar No. 12-219: 2170 West 7th
Street
Victor Selig appealed to erect a
three-story single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 MultiFamily District.

23

Calendar No. 12-210: Violation Notice
3432 West 117th Street
Kari Bast-Payne appealed from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 337.178.(a) in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 12-215: 6513 Superior
Avenue postponed to March 25,
2013.
Calendar No. 12-216: 6517 Superior
Avenue postponed to March 25,
2013.
Calendar No. 12-187: Appeal of City
View Mechanical postponed to
February 4, 2013.
Calendar No. 12-107: Appeal from
Parking Occupancy Tax
scheduled for January 14, 2013
postponed to March 25, 2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on December 31, 2012
were adopted and approved on January 7, 2013:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-208: 3552 East 131st
Street
Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner and the City of Cleveland,
prospective
purchaser,
appealed to construct a new fire station on acreage located in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 12-217: 6107 Broadway
Avenue
Slavic
Village
Development,
owner, and Centermark Development,
prospective
purchaser,
appealed to construct a new discount store on consolidated parcels
located in zoning for C2 General
Retail Business and B1 Two-Family
District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-184: 6555 Carnegie
Avenue
Hemingway at 6555 LLC appealed
to erect a 180 foot telecommunications tower in a Midtown Mixed Use
District 3; subject to conditions.

Calendar No. 12-206: 732 East 127th
Street
Al Kriss appealed to change use
from a two family residence to a
residence for three families in a B1
Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 12-214: 3204 Carroll
Avenue
Scott Maloney appealed to establish a 10 car parking lot in a B1
Two-Family District.

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-212: 4445 State Road
Fred Manson appealed from a
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau, Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division for failure to comply with Section 551.111(B) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-211: 4250 West 38th
Street
George Caraman appealed from a
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division for failure to comply with Section 551.111(B) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances; decision
of
the
Hearing
Examiner
affirmed.

Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

NO BIDS

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS

NO MEETING

NONE

31

AND ORDINANCES

The City Record

24
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Westbrook.

January 9, 2013
Mitchell, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Cleveland.
1:30 p.m

Wednesday, January 9, 2013
9:00 a.m.

Monday, January 7, 2013
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;

Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair; Brady, Cummins, Dow, Miller,

Public Utilities Committee: Present: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1651-12 — Colbalt Group, Inc. — Operations and Sustainability
Plan (O 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
Door replacement at Police Headquarters Building — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 8-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Structural improvements to 1st District Police Station — per Ord. 453-11 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 12-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Swimming pool improvements at various recreation centers — per Ord. 534-12 to R.W. Clark
Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 13-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water slide improvements at Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — per Ord. 534-12
to R.J. Platten Contracting Co. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 14-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Madison Avenue rehabilitation (West Blvd. to West 65th St.) — per Ord. 593-11 to Vandra
Brothers, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 6-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Birchdale Avenue, 8908 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-16-034 — Bernice McIntyre (BOC Res. 20-13).
Clement Avenue, 6716 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-24-058 — Frances T. Glus (BOC Res. 17-13) . .
East 103rd Street, 2236 (Ward 6) — PPN 121-18-075 — Darrell Paul (BOC Res. 21-13) . . . . . .
East 110th Street (Ward 9) — PPN 111-01-074 — Great Lakeview, LLC (BOC Res. 15-13). . .
East 65th Street, 1328 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-15-074 — Debra Jones (BOC Res. 18-13) . . . . . . .
East 94th Street, 1430 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-13-159 — Beatrice Wilson (BOC Res. 22-13). . . .
Quimby Avenue, 5613 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-20-043 — Marvin Linder (BOC Res. 19-13) . . . . .
Utica Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 104-20-075 — Dwight Fleming (BOC Res. 16-13) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

29
28
29
27
28
29
28
28

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Madison Avenue rehabilitation (West Blvd. to West 65th St.) — per Ord. 593-11 to Vandra
Brothers, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 6-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Control — Finance Department
Miles Avenue, 9127 — PPN 134-08-032/064 — sell to Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health
Services, Inc. (NEON) per Ord. 1335-12 (BOC Res. 7-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Birchdale Avenue, 8908 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-16-034 — Bernice McIntyre (BOC Res. 20-13).
Clement Avenue, 6716 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-24-058 — Frances T. Glus (BOC Res. 17-13) . .
East 103rd Street, 2236 (Ward 6) — PPN 121-18-075 — Darrell Paul (BOC Res. 21-13) . . . . . .
East 110th Street (Ward 9) — PPN 111-01-074 — Great Lakeview, LLC (BOC Res. 15-13). . .
East 65th Street, 1328 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-15-074 — Debra Jones (BOC Res. 18-13) . . . . . . .
East 94th Street, 1430 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-13-159 — Beatrice Wilson (BOC Res. 22-13). . . .
Quimby Avenue, 5613 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-20-043 — Marvin Linder (BOC Res. 19-13) . . . . .
Utica Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 104-20-075 — Dwight Fleming (BOC Res. 16-13) . . . . . . . . . .

32

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

29
28
29
27
28
29
28
28

January 9, 2013

The City Record

25

Board of Control — Land Sales
Miles Avenue, 9127 — PPN 134-08-032/064 — sell to Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health
Services, Inc. (NEON) per Ord. 1335-12 (BOC Res. 7-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Board of Control — League Park
Restoration and Site improvements — amend BOC Res. 512-12 — Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 9-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Board of Control — Lonnie Burten Recreation Center
Water slide improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to R.J. Platten Contracting Co. — Division of
Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 14-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cab and chassis with automated refuse bodies — per Ord. 570-12 to R & R Truck Sales, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 10-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Tree and stump removal — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Vancuren Services, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 11-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Air and cargo service consulting services — per Ord. 535-12, 1456-12 to Seabury Airline
Planning Group, LLC (BOC Res. 5-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Air and cargo service consulting services — per Ord. 535-12, 1456-12 to Seabury Airline
Planning Group, LLC — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 5-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Consulting services for the General Engineering Services VII Project — approve
subconsultants — Contract #PS2012*319 per BOC Res. 498-12 — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 1-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Door replacement at Police Headquarters Building — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company,
Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 8-13)
League Park Restoration and Site improvements — amend BOC Res. 512-12 — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 9-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Avenue rehabilitation (West Blvd. to West 65th St.) — per Ord. 593-11 to Vandra
Brothers, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital
Projects (BOC Res. 6-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Structural improvements to 1st District Police Station — per Ord. 453-11 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 12-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Swimming pool improvements at various recreation centers — per Ord. 534-12 to R.W. Clark
Co., Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 13-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water slide improvements at Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — per Ord. 534-12
to R.J. Platten Contracting Co. — Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 14-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Automotive and truck parts/service — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Lakefront Automotive Parts,
Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 4-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for the General Engineering Services VII Project — approve
subconsultants — Contract #PS2012*319 per BOC Res. 498-12 — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 1-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris disposal at landfill — per Ord. 890-12 to Boyas Excavating, Inc. (BOC Res. 3-13) . . . . .
Ontario Street Area Sewer Rehabilitation Project — per Ord. 740-08 — all bids rejected —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 2-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Cab and chassis with automated refuse bodies — per Ord. 570-12 to R & R Truck Sales, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 10-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Door replacement at Police Headquarters Building — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company,
Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 8-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
League Park Restoration and Site improvements — amend BOC Res. 512-12 (BOC Res. 9-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

33

The City Record

26

January 9, 2013

Structural improvements to 1st District Police Station — per Ord. 453-11 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. — Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 12-13)
Swimming pool improvements at various recreation centers — per Ord. 534-12 to R.W. Clark
Co., Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 13-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tree and stump removal — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Vancuren Services, Inc. — Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 11-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water slide improvements at Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — per Ord. 534-12
to R.J. Platten Contracting Co. — Division of Architecture and Site Development
(BOC Res. 14-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Miles Avenue, 9127 — PPN 134-08-032/064 — sell to Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health
Services, Inc. (NEON) per Ord. 1335-12 (BOC Res. 7-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Automotive and truck parts/service — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Lakefront Automotive Parts,
Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 4-13) . . . . .
Cab and chassis with automated refuse bodies — per Ord. 570-12 to R & R Truck Sales, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 10-13) . . . . . . . .
Debris disposal at landfill — per Ord. 890-12 to Boyas Excavating, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 3-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tree and stump removal — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Vancuren Services, Inc. — Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 11-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Board of Control — Water Division
Consulting services for the General Engineering Services VII Project — approve
subconsultants — Contract #PS2012*319 per BOC Res. 498-12 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 1-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Automotive and truck parts/service — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Lakefront Automotive Parts,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 4-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Ontario Street Area Sewer Rehabilitation Project — per Ord. 740-08 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 2-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

Board of Elections
Certificate of Results — Issue 119 — Proposed Charter Amendment — City General Election,
November 6th, 2012 (F 2-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Arnold Avenue, 3914, (Ward 14) – Litsandra Mulero, owner — appeal heard on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-213) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Avenue, 6107, (Ward 12) – Slavic Village Development Corporation, owner and
Centermark Development — appeal granted and adopted on 1/7/13 (Cal. 12-217) . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Avenue, 6555, (Ward 5) – Hemingway at 6555 LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-184) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carroll Avenue, 3204, (Ward 3) – Scott Maloney, owner — appeal heard on 1/7/13 (Cal. 12-214)
City View Mechanical, Inc. – appeal postponed to 2/14/13 on 1/7/13 (Cal. 12-187). . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 127th Street, 732, (Ward 10) – Al Kriss, owner — appeal denied and adopted on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-206) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 3552, (Ward 4) – Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner
and City of Cleveland, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Solutions, Inc. – appeal postponed to 3/25/13 on 1/7/13 (Cal. 12-107) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road, 4445, (Ward 13) – Fred Manson, owner — appeal denied and adopted on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 6513, (Ward 7) – Anabella Woods, owner — appeal postponed to 3/25/13 on
1/7/13 (Cal. 12-215). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 6517, (Ward 7) – Anabella Woods, owner — appeal postponed to 3/25/13 on
1/7/13 (Cal. 12-216). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street, 3432, (Ward 17) – Kari Bast-Payne, owner — appeal heard on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-210) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 38th Street, 4250, (Ward 13) – George Caraman, owner — appeal heard on 1/7/13
(Cal. 12-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2170, (Ward 3) – Victor Selig, owner — appeal heard on 1/7/13 (Cal. 12-219) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bridge Avenue, 5409, (Ward 15) – Silverstar Ohio Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal to
be heard on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

34

January 9, 2013

The City Record

Bridge Avenue, 5727, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5729, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5731, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5733, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5735, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5737, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5739, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3675, (Ward 12) – Mosinski Funeral Homes, Inc., owner — appeal to be
heard on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 3610, (Ward 8) – 3620 Superior Avenue, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-222) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1885, (Ward 15) – Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
1/22/13 (Cal. 12-223). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

Bridges
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge — State Of Ohio (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Capital Projects
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge — State Of Ohio (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

City Clerk
Dreyer, Alan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Dec. 21, 2012 — Jan. 06th, 2013 (F 3-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

City Council
Johnson, Council Member Kenneth L., — Ward 04 — Letter of Resignation (F 1-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Johnson, Kenneth L. — Oath of Office — Council Member, Ward 04 (F 36-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

City Planning Commission
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts
(Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Clerk of Council
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1651-12 — Colbalt Group, Inc. — agreement — Operations and
Sustainability Plan (O 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Crowell Morning — End Of Year Report — Federal Issues — The City of Cleveland (F 29-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Dreyer, Alan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Dec. 21, 2012 — Jan. 06th, 2013 (F 3-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Cleveland Housing Network
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing
Finance Agency (Ward 12) (R 19-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Cleveland Public Power
Equipment, Safety for compliance to OSHA Regulations and Safety Standards (O 26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Utilities Department — professional services — contracts — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Codified Ordinances
Amend Ord. No. 1642-12 — Day Care Center Fees, Applications, Inspections and Contagious
Disease Notification — Health Department (O 20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Communications
Balance Sheet — FYE 2010 & 2011 — Cleveland Thermal, LLC (F 4-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Certificate of Results — Issue 119 — Proposed Charter Amendment — City General Election,
November 6th, 2012 (F 2-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of Cleveland — Painting and Frame Restoration — accept gift — Andrew And Judith
Finger (F 5-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crowell Morning — End Of Year Report — Federal Issues — The City of Cleveland (F 29-13) .
Dreyer, Alan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Dec. 21, 2012 — Jan. 06th, 2013 (F 3-13) . . . . . .
Johnson, Council Member Kenneth L., — Ward 04 — Letter of Resignation (F 1-13) . . . . . . . . . .

35

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

12
12
12
11

The City Record

28

January 9, 2013

Condolences
Bickerstaff, Senora J. Etcherson (R 42-13) . . . . . . .
Blake, Sr., Thomas A. (R 49-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bottoms, Edith Rebecca (R 41-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Caldwell, Annie L. (R 44-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Davis, James L. (R 45-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fryan, Capt. Jim (Of The Goodtime III) (R 50-13) .
Giles, Mamie Coleman (R 48-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hills, William R. (R 40-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keating, Jean (R 38-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marizette, Sr., Daniel (R 52-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mason, Jr., Robert J. (R 51-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morris, Lucille B. (R 47-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patton, Patrick J. (R 39-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reid Johnson Wylie, Johnnie Mae (R 46-13) . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura (R 37-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, Jr., Gregeory S. (R 43-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) (R 53-13) .
Ganim, Richard A. (R 59-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hansen, Carrie (R 60-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jordan, Jr., Rev. Richard (R 55-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rodgers, Kevin Cornell (R 56-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Swanson, Johnnie Lois (R 54-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, Thelman Donella (R 58-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Travis, Gary (R 61-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations

Contracts
Equipment, Safety for compliance to OSHA Regulations and Safety Standards (O 26-13) . . .
Priority Dispatch — PROQA software licenses & training — Fire Module Dispatch System
(O 23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional services — Energy Management Plan (O 28-13). . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional services — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments
(Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing Finance Agency —
Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs.(Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. of Templin —
Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15) (R 18-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Economic Development Department
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 940-11 — West 25th Street Lofts, LLC (O 24-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Fees
Amend Ord. No. 1642-12 — Day Care Center Fees, Applications, Inspections and Contagious
Disease Notification — Health Department (O 20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Finance Department
City of Cleveland — Painting and Frame Restoration — accept gift — Andrew And Judith
Finger (F 5-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Fire Division
Priority Dispatch — contracts — PROQA software licenses & training — Fire Module Dispatch
System (O 23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Gifts
City of Cleveland — Painting and Frame Restoration — accept gift — Andrew And Judith
Finger (F 5-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

36

January 9, 2013

The City Record

29

Health Department
Amend Ord. No. 1642-12 — Day Care Center Fees, Applications, Inspections and Contagious
Disease Notification (O 20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Lease Agreement
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Liquor Permits
East 71 St., 4155 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 12) (F 10-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 1201 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 6-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 61 St., 1268-72 — new application (Ward 07) (F 13-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 10825 — new application (Ward 06) (F 14-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 4915 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 12-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 11609 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1139-12 (Ward 02) (R 33-13).
St Clair Ave., 15707 — new application (Ward 11) (F 15-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 1437 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 8-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15707 — objection to issuance (Ward 11) (R 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Rd., 6816 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 07) (R 32-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
W 130 St., 4677 — stock transfer application (Ward 18) (F 11-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 2527 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 14) (F 9-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3194 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1032-12
(Ward 14) (R 35-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1360 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 7-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1486-12
(Ward 04) (R 34-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12
24
12
12
23
23
12
12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Loans
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 940-11 — West 25th Street Lofts, LLC (O 24-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Oath of Office
Johnson, Kenneth L. — Oath of Office — Council Member, Ward 04 (F 36-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge — State Of Ohio (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Ohio House Finance Agency
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Aspen Place Apartments (Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Rehab. of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15) (R 18-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (Ward
12) (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Professional Services
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1651-12 — Colbalt Group, Inc. — agreement — Operations and
Sustainability Plan (O 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Priority Dispatch — contracts — PROQA software licenses & training — Fire Module Dispatch
System (O 23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — contracts — Energy Management Plan (O 28-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — contracts — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Purchases
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Recognition
Scarpitti, Nikki (R 62-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Reports
Balance Sheet — FYE 2010 & 2011 — Cleveland Thermal, LLC (F 4-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Crowell Morning — End of Year Report — Federal Issues — The City of Cleveland (F 29-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

37

The City Record

30

January 9, 2013

Resignations
Johnson, Council Member Kenneth L., — Ward 04 — Letter of Resignation (F 1-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Resolution of Support
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments (Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15)
(R 18-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing
Finance Agency (Ward 12) (R 19-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . 22

. . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Safety Department
Priority Dispatch — contracts — PROQA software licenses & training — Fire Module Dispatch
System (O 23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Stadium
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

State Of Ohio
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Tax Credits
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments (Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15)
(R 18-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (Ward 12) (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Utilities Department
Equipment, Safety for compliance to OSHA Regulations and Safety Standards (O 26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Professional Services — contracts — Energy Management Plan (O 28-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Professional Services — contracts — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Ward 01
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Jordan, Jr., Rev. Richard — Congratulations (R 55-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rodgers, Kevin Cornell — Congratulations (R 56-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Swanson, Johnnie Lois — Congratulations (R 54-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12

Ward 02
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giles, Mamie Coleman (R 48-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 11609 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1139-12 — liquor permit
(R 33-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 03
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 940-11 — West 25th Street Lofts, LLC (O 24-13) . . . . . . .
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . .
Fryan, Capt. Jim (Of The Goodtime III) — Condolence (R 50-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ganim, Richard A. — Congratulations (R 59-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scarpitti, Nikki — Recognition (R 62-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 1437 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 8-13) .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1360 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 7-13)

38

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

13
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

January 9, 2013

The City Record

31

Ward 04
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Council Member Kenneth L., — Ward 04 — Letter of Resignation (F 1-13) . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Kenneth L. — Oath of Office — Council Member, Ward 04 (F 36-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1486-12 —
liquor permit (R 34-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

12
11
12
12
12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Ward 05
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Morris, Lucille B. — Condolence (R 47-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reid Johnson Wylie, Johnnie Mae — Condolence (R 46-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12
12

Blake, Sr., Thomas A. — Condolence (R 49-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . .
East 61 St., 1268-72 — new application — liquor permit (F 13-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Rd., 6816 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 32-13).

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
23

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12
12
12

Ward 06
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Hills, William R. (R 40-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 10825 — new application — liquor permit (F 14-13) . . . . . . . .
Marizette, Sr., Daniel — Condolence (R 52-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, Thelman Donella — Congratulations (R 58-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Ward 07

Ward 08
Bickerstaff, Senora J. Etcherson — Condolence (R 42-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bottoms, Edith Rebecca — Condolence (R 41-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Caldwell, Annie L. — Condolence (R 44-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Scarpitti, Nikki — Recognition (R 62-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, Jr., Gregeory S. — Condolence (R 43-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Ward 09
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Davis, James L. — Condolence (R 45-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 10
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 11
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 1201 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 6-13) .
St Clair Ave., 15707 — new application — liquor permit (F 15-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15707 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 31-13). . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
23
12

Ward 12
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71 St., 4155 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 10-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

39

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

The City Record

32

January 9, 2013

Ward 13
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Memphis Ave., 4915 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 12-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 14
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 2527 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 9-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3194 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1032-12 —
liquor permit (R 35-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Ward 15
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments (R 16-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (R 18-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Scarpitti, Nikki — Recognition (R 62-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 16
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13) . . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height
Planning Commission (O 25-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

...............
Districts — City
...............
...............
...............

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 17
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Ganim, Richard A. — Congratulations (R 59-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12
12

Ward 18
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Fryan, Capt. Jim (Of The Goodtime III) — Condolence (R 50-13). . . . . . . . .
Hansen, Carrie — Congratulations (R 60-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keating, Jean — Condolence (R 38-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mason, Jr., Robert J. — Condolence (R 51-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piszczak , Martin “ Marty” — Congratulations (R 57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scarpitti, Nikki — Recognition (R 62-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Travis, Gary — Congratulations (R 61-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W 130 St., 4677 — stock transfer application — liquor permit ((F 11-13) . . .

Ward 19
Capers, Judge Jean Murrel (100th Birthday) — Congratulations (R 53-13)
Keating, Jean — Condolence (R 38-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patton, Patrick J. — Condolence (R 39-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunderman, Laura — Condolence (R 37-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Travis, Gary — Congratulations (R 61-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Water Division
Equipment, Safety for compliance to OSHA Regulations and Safety Standards (O 26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Water Pollution Control Division
Equipment, Safety for compliance to OSHA Regulations and Safety Standards (O 26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Zoning
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

40

