The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Tenth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
Statement of Cash Management
and Investment Policy
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
17
17
20
20
21
21
21
22
24
25
27
28

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44108
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5183

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 8, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present:
Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Kevin J. Kelley,
Eugene R. Miller, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt,
Zack
Reed,
Martin
J.
Sweeney and Jay Westbrook.
Also present were: Chief of Staff
Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government Affairs Valarie J. McCall,
Chief
of
Regional
Development
Chris Warren, Chief of Communications Maureen Harper, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief
of Public Affairs Natoya WalkerMinor, and Directors Langhenry,
Dumas, Benders, Wasik, Butler, Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich, and
Ambroz.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved.
Seconded by Council Member Reed.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 498-13.
From
Jane
Fumich,
Director,
Department of Aging — Notification
of grant acceptance from the Sisters
of Charity Foundation of Cleveland
to support Cleveland Senior Day
2013. Received.
File No. 499-13.
From
Department
of
Finance,
Division of Treasury — Statement of
Cash Management and Investment
Policy. Received.
File No. 510-13.
From
Julie
Mathis
Williams,
McCormack
Baron
Salazar
—
Revised Public Notification Letter
regarding Lexington Village Phase
I OHFA application. Received.
PLAT
File No. 500-13.
Dedication Plat — Waverly Station Subdivision Phase I, roadway
located south of Bridge Avenue,
between West 57th Street and West
58th Street.
Approved by Director of City Planning Commission. Approved by Committees on City Planning and Public Service.
Without objection, Plat approved.
Yeas 17. Nays 0.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 497-13.
RE: #4590264 — D1 D2 D3 D6
Transfer of Location Application —
Ken Stewart Flats LLC, 1121 West
10th Street. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 501-13.
RE: #6082343 — C2 C2X Transfer
of Ownership Application — Mohammad Mohammad LLC, d.b.a. Dolloff
Food Mart, 5346 Dolloff Road. (Ward
5). Received.
File No. 502-13.
RE: #9041605 — D5 Economic
Development Transfer Application
(TREX) — Tremont 101 LLC, d.b.a.
The Bourbon Street Barrel Room,
2393 Professor Avenue. (Ward 3).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

MOTION

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of

Res. No. 519-13—Lonzita K. Cummings.

559

The City Record

4
Res. No. 520-13—Almond
Franklin, Sr.

Charles

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
521-13—Delta
Sigma
Theta
Sorority,
Inc.
—
100th
Anniversary.
Res.
No.
522-13—ClevelandPeople.com.
Res. No. 523-13—West Cleveland
Kiwanis Club.
Res. No. 524-13—Rabbi Richard A.
Block.
Res. No. 525-13—Carol M. Fredrich.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 526-13—John G. Martin.
Res. No. 527-13—Great Lakes Science Center’s NASA Glenn Visitor
Center.
Res. No. 528-13—Council on American-Islamic Relations — Ohio.
Res. No. 529-13—Cleveland Chinese
Friendship Council (trip to Zhongshan, Guandong, China).
Res. No. 530-13—Chen Liangxian,
Mayor of Zhongshan, Guandong,
China.
Res. No. 531-13—First Community
Missionary Baptist Church - Dedication of Ocie Williams Fellowship
Hall.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 487-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland, Mitchell and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 559.239 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1062-06,
passed December 11, 2006 relating to
the Korean Cultural Garden; and to
supplement the codified ordinances
by enacting new Section 559.246,
relating to the Russian Cultural
Garden.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 559.239 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1062-06, passed December 11, 2006, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 559.239

Korean Garden

0.7189 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
100 Acre Lot No. 367 of East Cleveland, and also contained within Section “A”, Brookway Division of Rockefeller Park, and bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at the Intersection of
the Centerline of St. Clair Ave. N.E., 80
feet wide, with the East Line of said
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 367, a 5/8'
Iron Pin Monument;

Thence South 58°43'50" West,
along said Centerline of St. Clair Ave.
N.E., a distance of 744.20 feet to the
Centerline Intersection of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive, a Private
Road within said Rockefeller Park,
which said Point of Intersection is in
the Centerline of a Bridge over passing said Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive;
Thence North 32°14'33" West,
along the Centerline of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive, a distance of
34.91 feet;
Thence continuing along the Centerline of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive and a curve deflecting to the
right, having a Radius of 790.00 feet, a
Central Angle of 50°02'35", an Arc of
690.00 feet, a Chord of 668.28 feet,
which bears North 07°13'15" West to a
Point of Tangency;
Thence North 17°48'03" East along
the Centerline of Martin Luther King,
Jr. Drive, a distance of 275.00 feet to a
Point of Curvature;
Thence continuing along the Centerline of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive and a Curve deflecting to the
left, having a Radius of 1000.00 feet, a
Central Angle of 24°05'24", an Arc of
420.45 feet, a Chord of 417.36 feet,
which bears North 05°45'21" East to a
point in said Centerline of Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive;
Thence radial from said Centerline,
South 83°42'39" West, a distance of
35.00 feet to a City of Cleveland/Esber
capped iron pin set in the West Line
of Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive
aforesaid and the Place of Beginning;
Thence continuing South 83°42'39"
West along a radial line, a distance of
feet
to
a
City
of
128.73
Cleveland/Esber capped iron pin set
in a Curve along the East Bank of
Doan Brook;
Thence along said East Bank of
Doan Brook, and a Curve deflecting to
the right, having a Radius of 129.50
feet, a Central Angle of 56°05'37", an
Arc of 126.78 feet, a Chord of 121.78
feet, which bears North 19°37'05"
West to a Braun-Prenosil Associates
capped iron pin found at a non-tangent Point of Reverse Curvature;
Thence continuing along the East
Bank of Doan Brook aforesaid, and a
Curve deflecting to the left, having a
Radius of 240.00 feet, a Central Angle
of 20°46'10", an Arc of 87.00 feet, a
Chord of 86.52 feet, which bears North
00°35'33" East, to a Braun-Prenosil
Associates capped iron pin found;
Thence North 69°41'25" East, along
a Radial Line, 156.31 feet to a BraunPrenosil Associates capped iron pin in
a Curve of the West Line of Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive;
Thence along said West Line of
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, and a
Curve deflecting to the right, having
a Radius of 965.00 feet, a Central
Angle of 14°01'14", an Arc of 236.14
feet, a Chord of 235.55 feet, which
bears South 13°17'58" East to the
Place of Beginning;
Further known as Parcel “A”, containing 31,314 Sq.Ft., 0.7189 Acres of
Land, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record. Basis of Bearings used were derived from a Survey
performed by Braun-Prenosil Associates, Dated: April, 26, 2006.
Section 2. That existing Section
559.239 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1062-06, passed December 11, 2006, is repealed.

560

April 10, 2013
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, is
supplemented by enacting new Section 559.246 to read as follows:
Section 559.246

Russian Garden

0.7189 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
100 Acre Lot No. 367 of East Cleveland, and also contained within Section “A”, Brookway Division of Rockefeller Park, and bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at the Intersection of
the Centerline of St. Clair Ave. N.E., 80
feet wide, with the East Line of said
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 367, a 5/8'
Iron Pin Monument;
Thence South 58°43'50" West,
along said Centerline of St. Clair Ave.
N.E., a distance of 744.20 feet to the
Centerline Intersection of Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive, a Private
Road within said Rockefeller Park,
which said Point of Intersection is in
the Centerline of a Bridge over passing said Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive;
Thence North 32°14'33" West,
along the Centerline of Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drive, a distance of 34.91
feet;
Thence continuing along the Centerline of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive and a curve deflecting to the
right, having a Radius of 790.00 feet, a
Central Angle of 50°02'35", an Arc of
690.00 feet, a Chord of 668.28 feet,
which bears North 07°13'15" West to a
Point of Tangency;
Thence North 17°48'03" East along
the Centerline of Martin Luther King,
Jr. Drive, a distance of 275.00 feet to a
Point of Curvature;
Thence continuing along the Centerline of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive and a Curve deflecting to the
left, having a Radius of 1000.00 feet, a
Central Angle of 03°07'59", an Arc of
54.68 feet, a Chord of 54.68 feet, which
bears North 16°14'03" East to a point
in said Centerline of Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drive;
Thence radial from said Centerline,
North 75°19'56" West, a distance of
35.00 feet to a Braun-Prenosil Associates capped iron pin found in the
West Line of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive aforesaid and the Place of
Beginning;
Thence continuing North 75°19'56"
West along a radial line, a distance of
81.00 feet to a Braun-Prenosil Associates capped iron pin found in the East
Bank of Doan Brook;
Thence continuing along said East
Bank of Doan Brook the following
five (5) courses,
North 09°30'00" East, a distance of
53.45 feet to a Braun-Prenosil Associates capped iron pin found;
Thence North 06°03'51" West, a distance of 60.34 feet to a Braun-Prenosil
Associates capped iron pin found;
Thence North 09°43'10" East, a distance of 128.29 feet to a to a BraunPrenosil Associates capped iron pin
found at a non-tangent Point of Curvature;
Thence Northwest along a Curve
deflecting to the left, having a Radius
of 82.00 feet, a Central Angle of
46°07'12", an Arc of 66.01 feet, a Chord
of 64.24 feet, which bears North
22°33'55" West to a Braun-Prenosil
Associates capped iron pin found at a

April 10, 2013
non-tangent Point of Reverse Curvature;
Thence Northwest along a Curve
deflecting to the right, having a
Radius of 129.50 feet, a Central Angle
of 12°49'09", an Arc of 28.97 feet, a
Chord of 28.91 feet, which bears North
54°04'29" West to a City of Cleveland/Esber capped iron pin set;
Thence North 83°42'39" East, along
a Radial Line, 128.73 feet to a City of
Cleveland/ Esber capped iron pin set
in a Curve of the West Line of Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive;
Thence along said West Line of
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, and a
Curve deflecting to the right, having
a Radius of 965.00 feet, a Central
Angle of 20°57'25", an Arc of 352.97
feet, a Chord of 351.00 feet, which
bears South 04°11'21" West to the
Place of Beginning;
Further known as Parcel “B”, containing 31,316 Sq.Ft., 0.7189 Acres of
Land, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record. Basis of Bearings used were derived from a Survey
performed by Braun-Prenosil Associates, Dated: April, 26, 2006.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 488-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Relations to apply for and accept a grant
from Cuyahoga County Juvenile
Court to conduct the 2013 Community Diversion Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Relations is authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $14,400,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court to conduct the 2013 Community Diversion Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the 2013 funding request for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the 2013 funding
request for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 488-13-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Relations shall have the

The City Record
authority to extend the term of the
grant during the grant term.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Community Relations may sign all
documents and do all things that are
necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Relations, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 489-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the Safe and
Sound PREA Project; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $60,895.18,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Cuyahoga County to conduct the Safe and Sound PREA Project Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 489-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through

561

5
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Cuyahoga
County to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 490-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the assessment
equalization boards on objections
concerning estimated assessments to
relay and repair sidewalks, driveway aprons, and curbs (including
adjustments of castings and landscaping, if necessary) encroaching
upon the public right-of-ways or otherwise improving the right-of-ways
on West 105th Street, West 106th
Street, West 114th Street and East
151st Street; determining to proceed
with the improvements; and adopting the equalized assessments.
Whereas, the assessment equalization board appointed by Resolution No. 160-13, adopted February 4,
2013, to hear and determine all
objections concerning the estimated
assessments for improving West
105th Street from Baltic Road to
Clifton Boulevard (Assessment Area
#1), West 106th Street from Baltic
Road to Clifton Boulevard (Assessment Area #2), West 114th Street
from Detroit Avenue to Franklin
Boulevard (Assessment Area #4),
and East 151st Street from Kinsman
Road to Bartlett Avenue (Assessment Area #5) by relaying and
repairing
sidewalks,
driveway
aprons, and curbs (including adjustments of castings and landscaping,
if necessary) encroaching upon the
public right-of-ways or otherwise
improving
the
right-of-ways
in
accordance with Resolution No. 90912, adopted August 8, 2012, has filed
its report with this Council as to its
determination of such objections;
and
Whereas, this Council deems said
report proper in all respects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
assessment
equalization
boards,
appointed by Resolution No. 160-13,
adopted February 4, 2013, and contained
in
File
No.
490-13-A,
is
approved.
Section 2. That the assessments as
equalized by the boards and recom-

6
mended in their report are approved,
and the assessments are directed to
be filed in the Office of the Clerk of
this Council.
Section 3. That it is determined to
proceed to improve West 105th Street
from Baltic Road to Clifton Boulevard
(Assessment Area #1), West 106th
Street from Baltic Road to Clifton
Boulevard (Assessment Area #2),
West 114th Street from Detroit
Avenue
to
Franklin
Boulevard
(Assessment Area #4), and East 151st
Street from Kinsman Road to Bartlett
Avenue (Assessment Area #5) by
relaying and repairing sidewalks,
driveway aprons, and curbs (including adjustments of castings and landscaping, if necessary) encroaching
upon the public right-of-ways or otherwise improving the right-of-ways in
accordance with Resolution No. 90912, adopted August 8, (the “Resolution
of Necessity”).
Section 4. That the Improvements
shall be performed under the provisions of the Resolution of Necessity,
and with the plans, specifications,
and profiles approved and filed in the
office of the Clerk of Council and in
accordance with the estimates as
equalized.
Section 5. That the estimated
assessments for the Improvements, as
equalized by the Assessment Equalization Boards, filed in the office of
the Clerk of City Council are adopted.
Section 6. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost of
the Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner and
number of installments as provided
for in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 7. That no claims for damages resulting from the Improvements have been filed.
Section 8. That the Clerk of this
Council is directed to deliver a certified copy of this ordinance to the
County Auditor within fifteen (15)
days after the passage of this ordinance as required by Section 319.61 of
the Revised Code.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 491-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Brookwood
Capital
Partners,
Inc.,
or
its
designee, to provide for a ten-year,
sixty percent tax abatement for certain tangible real property improvements, as an incentive to construct
a new facility to be used as a medical supply warehouse and distribution center occupied by Owens &
Minor, Inc. and other potential firms
located at the southwest corner of
South Marginal Road and Marquette
Street in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated March 22,
2013, the City provided the Cleve-

The City Record
land Metropolitan School District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by Section
5709.83 of the Revised Code. That
notice was provided to the CMSD not
later than fourteen days prior to
adoption of this ordinance; and
Whereas, by letter dated September 24, 2012, the City of Cleveland
provided the Village of Glenwillow
with a notice of Owens & Minor,
Inc.’s intent to relocate required by
Section 5709.69 of the Revised Code.
That notice was provided to the
municipality thirty days prior to the
first public hearing of this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area, which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains
the
characteristics
described in division (A) of Section
5709.61 of the Revised Code and certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or its designee (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to construct a new facility to be used as
a medical supply warehouse and distribution center occupied by Owens
& Minor, Inc. and other potential
firms located at the southwest corner of South Marginal Road and
Marquette Street in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be
at a competitive disadvantage operating at this location if taxes on certain tangible real property improvements were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or job opportunities will be lost;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enteris
qualified
by
financial
prise
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide
for a ten-year, sixty percent (60%)
tax abatement for certain tangible
real property improvements; the
abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall be in accordance
with the terms in the Summary con-

562

April 10, 2013
tained in File No. 491-13-A. These
terms shall not be amended, nor shall
the tax abatement be assignable or
transferable to any entity, without
the prior legislative authorization by
Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code and the funds are appropriated
for the purposes listed in Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That any contract authorized by this legislation must require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts. The
identification process shall place special emphasis on the hard to employ,
including people who are disabled.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 492-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 69405 with Circadian
Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun to provide for the use and occupancy of
certain City-owned property located
in the passenger terminal building
at Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1324-10,
passed
November 8, 2010, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. 69405 with Circadian Knight
Corp. d/b/a Top Gun for the use and
occupancy of certain City-owned
property located in the passenger
terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1324-10
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, for the use of the
Leased premises, Circadian Knight
Corp. d/b/a Top Gun shall pay the
City an annual fee as specified in
the contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69405 for an additional
year with Circadian Knight Corp.

April 10, 2013
d/b/a Top Gun for the use and occupancy of certain City-owned property located in the passenger terminal
building at Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1324-10 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 493-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of Airport Executives, Inc. to provide professional
technical and general training and
development content, activities, and
programs in support of employee
performance and professional development programs at Cleveland HopInternational
Airport
and
kins
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of Airport Executives, Inc. to
provide professional technical and
general training and development
content, activities, and programs in
support of employee performance
and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 for an additional year with American Association
of Airport Executives, Inc. for professional
technical
and
general
training and development content,
activities, and programs in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 494-13.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease certain space located on a portion of North Marginal Road and
known as Lot 9 to the Cleveland
Coordinating Committee for the Cod,
Inc. to provide parking for the USS
Cod Museum, for a term of six
months.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain space located on a portion of North Marginal Road and
known as Lot 9, which is not needed for public use; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Coordinating Committee for the Cod, Inc.
(“Lessee”) has proposed to lease the
property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port Control is authorized to lease to the
Lessee, certain space which is not
needed for public use more fully
described as the eastern portion of
Lot 9 on North Marginal Road.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed six months beginning May 1,
2013 and ending October 31, 2013.
Section 3. That the space authorized
by this ordinance shall be leased at a
rental of $375.00 per month, which is
determined to be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities.
Section 4. That the Lease shall provide that the Lessee, subject to the
approval of appropriate City officials,
may use the remaining portion of Lot
9 for additional parking up to six (6)
times during the term of the lease for
no additional cost. If the Lessee, subject to the approval of the appropriate
City officials, wishes to use the
remaining portion of Lot 9 for additional parking after they have used
their six (6) complimentary uses, a
fee of $200.00 per day shall be
charged.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.

563

7
Ord. No. 495-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary for analysis,
identification, storage, remediation,
transportation, recycling and disposal of various chemicals, hazardous waste products and other
non-hazardous and recyclable waste
materials for the Division of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period up to
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period up to
two years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary for
analysis,
identification,
storage,
remediation,
transportation,
recycling and disposal of various chemicals, hazardous waste products and
other non-hazardous and recyclable
waste materials, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public
Power, and Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Public
Utilities shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 2002, RL
2013-10)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

8
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 496-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell the southeast
portion of City-owned Permanent
Parcel No. 104-02-002, located at the
southwest corner of South Marginal
Road and Marquette Street to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or their
designee, for construction of a medical supply warehouse and distribution center; authorizing the lease of
the northeast portion of the parcel
to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.,
or their designee for a period up to
fifty years, with one option to renew
for an additional forty-nine year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities; and authorizing
one or more Option Agreements for
the sale and lease of the remaining
westerly portion of the parcel, for
future expansion of the project.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Permanent Parcel No. 104-02-002 and
is located at the southwest corner of
South Marginal Road and Marquette
Street, which is not needed for the
City’s use; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities requests the sale of the
southeast portion of the property
(“Part A”) to Brookwood Capital
Partners Inc., or their designee (the
“Developer”) and the lease of the
northeast portion of the property
(“Part B”) to Developer, for the purposes of developing a medical supply warehouse and distribution center for its client, Owens & Minor, a
supplier to University Hospitals; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities also requests authority to
enter into options to sell and lease
the two remaining westerly portions
(“Part C” and “Part D”) to Developer for future expansion; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for the
City’s use:
SE portion of PP 104-02-002
(approx. 5.56 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel A on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies

The City Record
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Developer
at a price not less than the appraised,
fair market value amount of $39,000
per acre, which is approximately
$216,840, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances as may be
placed by the City of Cleveland in the
deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to lease to Developer, certain property which is not needed for
the City’s use and is more fully
described as follows:
(NE portion of PP 104-02-002)
(approx. 2.8 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel B on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 5. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed fifty years with one option to
renew for an additional 49 years,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Section 6. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at a rental of $42,857 per acre,
multiplied by 4.4%, or $5,346 annually,
during the initial term of the lease. If
the option to renew is exercised, the
renewal rate will be based on the
then-current fair market value of the
parcel and the then-current BBBrated long-term interest rate.
Section 7. That the lease may authorize the Developer to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 8. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized above.
Section 10. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to enter
into an Option to Purchase Agreement for the sale of the following
described property which is not needed for the City’s use:

564

April 10, 2013
(SW portion of PP 104-02-002)
(approx. 3.3 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel C on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 11. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the property
described above under the option
agreement, at a price not less than the
appraised, fair market value amount
of $35,000 per acre, which is approximately $116,315, taking into account
all restrictions, reversionary interests and similar encumbrances as
may be placed by the City of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance
Section 12. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 13. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into an Option to
Lease Agreement for the lease of the
following described property which is
not needed for the City’s use:
(NW portion of PP 104-02-002)
(approx. 2.27 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel D on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 14. That the term of the
lease under the Option to Lease
Agreement shall not exceed fifty
years, and shall run coterminous with
the lease authorized in Section 4
above, with one option to renew for an
additional 49 years, exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 15. That the property leased
under the Option to Lease Agreement
shall be leased at a rental of $35,000
per acre, multiplied by 4.4%, or $3,502
annually, during the initial term of
the lease. If the option to renew is
exercised, the renewal rate will be
based on the then-current fair market
value of the parcel and the then-current BBB-rated long-term interest
rate.
Section 16. That the lease under the
Option to Lease Agreement may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate
City agencies and officials.

April 10, 2013
Section 17. That the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
under the Option to Lease Agreement
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 18. That the term of the
options to lease and sell described in
Sections 10 and 13 above shall be for a
period of no greater than two years.
Section 19. That the consideration
to be paid to the City for the options
described in Sections 10 and 13 above
shall be $13,720 per year.
Section 20. That the City will retain
one or more access easements over all
leased or sold portions of Permanent
Parcel No. 104-02-002 for the purpose
of installing and maintaining existing and future Cleveland Public
Power electric components.
Section 21. That the Option Agreement or Agreements shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 22. That Parcels C and D
(the Submerged Lands) are not necessary for the construction, maintenance, or operation by the municipal
corporation, county, or port authority
of
breakwaters,
piers,
docks,
wharves,
bulkheads,
connecting
ways, water terminal facilities, and
improvements, and marginal highways in aid of navigation and water
commerce and that the land uses specified in the application comply with
regulation of permissible land use
under a waterfront plan of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 23. That the proceeds from
the sale and lease, payment for consideration of the options, and the proceeds from the sale or lease of the
property if either options are exercised shall be deposited into Fund No.
58 SF 001.
Section 24. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 503-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the State of Ohio, by and
through the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, to terminate the
Lease Agreement for the lease of certain lakefront lands and properties
along Lake Erie.
Whereas, the City and State of
Ohio, by and through the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources,
(the “State”) entered into a Lease
for certain Lakefront Lands dated
as of April 26, 1978 and recorded in
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office in Volume 526, Page 973, as
amended, (the “State Lease”); and
Whereas, pursuant to the State
Lease, the City leased to the State
the following lakefront parks and
properties located in Cleveland, Ohio

The City Record
along Lake Erie: (i) Edgewater
Park; (ii) the portion of East 55th
Street/Gordon Park that is north of
I-90 (including, among other things,
the East 55th Street ODNR Headquarters and the East 72nd Street
Maintenance Facility and Fishing
Area); (iii) Euclid Beach Park; and
(iv) Villa Angela/Wildwood Park
(collectively,
the
“Lakefront
Parks”); and
Whereas, the State currently manages and operates marinas at East
55th Street (the “E55th Street Marina”), Edgewater Park (the “Edgewater Marina”) and Wildwood Park
(the “Wildwood Marina”; the E55th
Street Marina, the Edgewater Marina and the Wildwood Marina are
hereinafter referred to collectively
as the “Marinas”); and
Whereas, the Edgewater Marina,
E55th Street Marina and Wildwood
Marina are operated by concessionaires pursuant to concession agreements
(the
“Marina
Concession
Agreements”); and
Whereas, the State has subleased
the Edgewater Yacht Club, Forest
City Yacht Club, Inner-City Yacht
Club, Lakeside Yacht Club and
Wildwood Yacht Club (collectively
the “Yacht Clubs”) to private operators under individual subleases (collectively, the “Yacht Club Subleases”); and
Whereas, the State has entered
into various food and service concession agreements relating to the
Lakefront Parks (collectively, the
“Service Concession Agreements”);
and
Whereas, the Lakefront Parks,
Marinas, Yacht Clubs and all other
related buildings, easements, appurtenances, improvements and personal property located within or relating to the Lakefront Parks are hereinafter referred to collectively as
the “Lakefront Park Properties;”
and
Whereas,
the
State
owns
the
approximately 13.47 acre parcel park
known as Villa Angela Park; and
Whereas, the parties share the
common goal to protect public safety, physical assets and public property while providing for the appropriate use and access to the Lakefront Parks by the general public
and private interest in a manner
most conducive to the public health,
safety and welfare; and
Whereas, in furtherance of these
goals, the parties have agreed to
transfer the operation, management
and control of the Lakefront Parks
to the Board of Park Commissioners
of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park
District
“Metroparks”
consistent
with Metroparks’ strategic plan entitled “Cleveland Metroparks 2020:
The Emerald Necklace Centennial
Plan” (the “Strategic Plan’); and
Whereas, the State, on behalf of
its Division of Watercraft wishes to
enter into a 99-year lease with City
for its existing boat dock structures
and related improvements located on
the west side of the “Tract - East
55th Street Marina” , the “Watercraft
Marina Lease”; and
Whereas,
The
Ohio
General
Assembly and the Governor have
through the passage of Am. Sub. H.
B. #51, section #503.20, Department
of Natural Resources Parks Special
Purposes, appropriation line item
725509
have
appropriated,
$14,000,000.00
(the
“Transition
Fund”) to be provided to the City to

565

9
assist in the operations and maintenance of the Lakefront Parks; and
Whereas, the State and City have
agreed to the terms of a Memorandum of Agreement under which the
parties agree among other things, to
the following: the State Lease with
the City for the Lakefront Parks
may be terminated, the City may
accept assignment of all Marina
Concession Agreements, Yacht Club
Subleases, Service Concession Agreements, any and all personal property related to the operation of the
Lakefront Parks, the City may
acquire Villa Angela Park from the
State, the City may enter into the
Watercraft Marina Lease with the
State , and the City may accept the
Transition funds from the State, all
in furtherance of an orderly transition of the operation of the Lakefront Park Properties from the State
to Metroparks; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any ordinance to the contrary, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a Memorandum
of Agreement with the State of Ohio,
by and through the Ohio Department
of Natural Resources, to terminate
the Lease Agreement for the abovestated purposes, substantially in the
form of agreement contained in File
No. 503-13-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten.
Section 2. That the Memorandum of
Agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain any
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the City.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other
agreements, documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect this ordinance, including
but not limited to any conveyances,
assignments, leases, and acceptance
of funds.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 504-13.
By Council Members Polensek,
Westbrook, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
the Board of Park Commissioners of
the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to lease certain City-owned lakefront parks, including Villa Angela
Park.
Whereas, the City and State of
Ohio, by and through the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources,

10
(the “State”) entered into a Lease
for certain Lakefront Lands dated
as of April 26, 1978 and recorded in
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office in Volume 526, Page 973, as
amended, (the “State Lease”); and
Whereas, pursuant to the State
Lease, the City leased to the State
the following lakefront parks and
properties located in Cleveland, Ohio
along Lake Erie: (i) Edgewater
Park; (ii) the portion of East 55th
Street/Gordon Park that is north of
I-90 (including, among other things,
the East 55th Street ODNR Headquarters and the East 72nd Street
Maintenance Facility and Fishing
Area); (iii) Euclid Beach Park; and
(iv) Villa Angela/Wildwood Park
(collectively,
the
“Lakefront
Parks”); and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No._____ passed _____ this
Council authorized the termination
of the State Lease, which provided
for among other things, that the
City accept assignment of all Lakefront
Parks
Marina
Concession
Agreements, Yacht Club Subleases,
Service Concession Agreements, any
and all personal property related to
the
operation
of
the
Lakefront
Parks, that Villa Angela Park be
conveyed to the City, and that the
City accept the transition funds
from the State in the amount of
$14,000,000, (”Transition Funds”) all
in furtherance of an orderly transition of the operation of the Lakefront Park Properties from the State
to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park District (“Metroparks”); and
Whereas, Metroparks is authorized to acquire and/or lease real
property for the conservation of the
natural resources of the State of
Ohio and to develop, improve, protect and promote the use of parks
pursuant and subject to the provisions of Chapter 1545 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas,
in
furtherance
of
Metroparks’ goals and purpose and
consistent
with
the
Metroparks’
strategic plan entitled “Cleveland
Metroparks 2020: The Emerald Necklace Centennial Plan” (the “Strategic Plan’), Metroparks has agreed to
lease and assume control, operation
and management of the Lakefront
Parks, including Villa Angela Park,
and the City has agreed to lease the
Lakefront Parks, including Villa
Angela Park, to Metroparks and otherwise assist in connection with the
transition of the operation of the
Lakefront Park Properties from the
State to Metroparks; and
Whereas, Metroparks has agreed
to make certain capital improvements to the Lakefront Parks; and
Whereas, the City and Metroparks
have agreed to the terms of a Lease
Agreement under which the parties
agree among other things, to the following: the City will transfer all
Lakefront Parks to Metroparks,
including Villa Angela Park, the City
will assign to Metroparks all Marina
Concession Agreements, Yacht Club
Subleases and Service Concession
Agreements, the City will transfer to
Metorparks all personal property
related to the operation of the Lakefront Parks, and the City will transfer
the Transition Funds to Metroparks,
which funds shall be used by

The City Record
Metroparks to assist in the operation
and maintenance of the Lakefront
Parks; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any ordinance to the contrary, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a Lease Agreement with the Metroparks for the
above-stated purposes, substantially
in the form of agreement contained
in File No. 504-13-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten.
Section 2. That the Lease Agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain any
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the City.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other
agreements, documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 505-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Groh Mansion as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Groh Mansion as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Groh
Mansion has been properly notified
and has consented in writing to the
proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Groh
Mansion as a landmark and has set
forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest
or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Groh Mansion,
whose street address in the City of
Cleveland is 3043 Superior Avenue, N.
E., Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number is 102-18-038,
and is also known as the following
described property:

566

April 10, 2013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 30 in John M. Sterling and
A. J. Lawrence’s Subdivision of part
of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 114,
115, and 116, as shown by the recorded
plat of said Subdivision in Volume 2
of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Superior Avenue, N. E., at its intersection with the Westerly line of East
31st Street (formerly Waring Street);
thence Northerly along said Westerly
line of East 31st Street, 102 and 82/100
feet to the Southeasterly corner of
land conveyed to John Gammell and
G. F. Streit, by Deed dated February
11, 1935, and recorded in Volume 4472,
Page 440 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed to
John Gammell and G. F. Streit, 50 feet
to the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
30; thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 30, about 99 feet
to the Northerly line of Superior
Avenue, N. E.,; thence Easterly along
said Northerly line of Superior
Avenue, N. E., 50 feet and 2 inches to
the place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways;
Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on
City Planning.
Ord. No. 506-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Stockbridge Apartment Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Stockbridge Apartment Building as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Stockbridge Apartment Building has been
properly notified and has consented
in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Stockbridge Apartment Building as a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for
its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the

April 10, 2013
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest
or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Stockbridge
Apartment Building, whose street
address in the City of Cleveland is
3328 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number is 103-07-015, and is also known as
the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots Nos.
9 and 10 in J. H. Webster’s Subdivision
of part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos.
64, 65, and 66 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 4
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land having frontage of 100 feet on the
Southerly side of Euclid Avenue and
extending back 199.38 feet deep on the
Westerly line, 199.36 feet deep on the
Easterly line, and having a rear line
of 100 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less but subject to
all legal highways;
Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on
City Planning.
Ord. No. 518-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Zone, Cimperman and Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 431.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 672-12,
passed June 4, 2012, relating to the
safe distance requirement for the
operator of a bus while overtaking a
bicycle.
Whereas, buses occupy shared
bus/bike lanes and curb lanes while
making stops, and typically move
more slowly than other commercial
vehicles because of the need to make
frequent stops; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 431.03 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 672-12, passed June 4, 2012, is
amended as follows:
Section 431.03 Overtaking, Passing
to Left; Driver’s Duties
The following rules govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
(a) The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as
provided in subsection (c) hereof, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken,
shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance, and shall not again drive to
the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
(b) Except when overtaking and
passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall
give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s
audible signal, and he or she shall not
increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.

11
(c) The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a
divided street or highway as defined
in Section 431.31, a limited access
highway as defined in RC 5511.02 or a
highway with four (4) or more traffic
lanes, is not required to signal audibly to the vehicle being overtaken
and passed.
(d) The operator of a motor vehicle
overtaking a bicycle proceeding in
the same direction on a roadway shall
leave a safe distance, but not less
than three (3) feet, when passing the
bicycle and shall maintain that distance, and shall not increase the
speed of his or her vehicle, until safely past the overtaken bicycle. The
same requirements apply to the operator of a bus, except that the operator
shall not exceed 30 miles per hour in
speed or the speed limit, whichever is
less, while maintaining the safe distance of not less than three (3) feet.
The same requirements that apply to
the operator of a motor vehicle apply
to the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle, commercial truck, or commercial unit, except that the safe distance
shall not be less than six (6) feet.
(e) The operator of a motor vehicle
overtaking a bicycle proceeding in
the same direction on a roadway shall
vacate the lane in which the bicycle
user is located if the roadway has two
or more marked lanes running in the
same direction.
Section 2. That existing Section
431.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29,
1976, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Public Works, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Safety, City Planning,
Legislation, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 511-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An ordinance changing the Use District of lands located on the north side of Woodworth Avenue at its intersection
with Hayden Avenue from Local Retail to Multi-Family Residential (Map Change No.2431).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Hayden Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Woodworth Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Woodworth Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 20 in the Jos H. Greenwald Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 58, Page 40 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line and continuing along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Glenside Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Glenside Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot No. 817 in the Glen Haven Subdivision shown on the recorded plan in Volume 38, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Woodworth Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Woodworth Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Hayden Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Sections 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2431 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

567

12

The City Record

April 10, 2013

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 512-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) on and changing the Use District of lands located at E.
156 St. and Calcutta Avenue from a Two Family Residential District to Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a
‘2’ Height District (Map Change No.2430).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of E. 156th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Calcutta Avenue south of Waterloo Road;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 156th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of the J.W. McClure Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 27,
Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
Sublot No. 124 in the C.W. Moses Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 27, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Calcutta Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Calcutta Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 116 in the aforementioned C.W. Moses Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Permanent Parcel Number 116-01-091;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the northwesterly
line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with
the southerly line of Sublot No. 114 in the aforementioned C.W. Moses Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Permanent Parcel Number 116-01-071;

568

April 10, 2013

The City Record

13

Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 156th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 156th Street tot its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Shasta Court;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said centerline of Shasta Court to its intersection with the
northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 360 in the Lake Shore Co. No. 2 Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 28, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Permanent Parcel Number 116-02-056;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Calcutta Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Calcutta Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 156th Street and
the principal place of beginning;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the lands located at Calcutta Avenue and E. 156th Street shown shaded on the attached map hereby designated as a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District (PRO).
Section 3. That the changed designation of lands described in Sections 1 and 2 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2430 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council
and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

569

The City Record

14
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED

The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

Ord. No. 513-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.022 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1657-09,
passed December 7, 2009, relating to
solid waste collection fee fixed rate.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 551.022 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1657-09, passed December 7, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:

Ord. No. 514-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name Vemel Whalen Way as a secondary name to Glendale Avenue
between Lee Road and East 169th
Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Vemel Whalen Way
shall be added as a secondary name to
Glendale Avenue between Lee Road
and East 169th Street.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

Section 551.022 Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate
(a) All residential properties shall
be charged a monthly rate of $8.75 per
unit for the collection and disposal of
solid waste. The per unit fee shall be
discounted by fifty percent (50%) for
a residential property owner that
receives a reduction in their water
rate under the homestead provisions
of Chapter 535.
(b) The fee shall be included on the
property owner’s water bill and shall
be due when the water charges are
due.
(c) Exemptions.
(1) A residential property owner
that resides in a multiple unit
dwelling where the other units of the
dwelling are vacant and not used for
rental purposes, may request an
exemption from the per-unit charge
for the unoccupied units.
(2) If a residential property owner
resides in their own property and that
property has been unoccupied for a
consecutive period of sixty (60) or
more days, the owner may request a
fifty percent (50%) discount from the
per-unit charge during that time.
(d) The Director of Public Works
shall create rules and regulations
establishing guidelines for vacant
properties.
(e) As used in this section:
(1) Residential property” means
real property that is improved by a
building or other structure that has
one (1) to four (4) dwelling units.
(2) “Dwelling unit” means a room
or group of rooms located within a
dwelling structure and forming a single habitable unit with living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitary
facilities used or intended to be used
by one (1) family.
(3) “Dwelling structure” means a
building
or
structure
used
or
designed or intended to be used, all or
in part, for residential purposes.
Section 2. That existing Section
551.022 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1657-09, passed December 7, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 507-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 910
East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Busy Store,
Inc., 910 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
1143619 to Niju Investments, LLC,
910 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44119,
Permanent
Number
63817750050; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public

570

April 10, 2013
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Busy Store, Inc., 910 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 1143619 to Niju
Investments, LLC, 910 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Perma63817750050;
and
nent
Number
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 508-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a
D5
Liquor
Permit
at
16826
Lakeshore Boulevard and repealing
Resolution No. 1283-11, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a
D5
Liquor
Permit
to
16826
Lakeshore Boulevard by Resolution
No. 1283-12 adopted by the Council
on September 10, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to 169, LLC, 16826
Lakeshore Boulevard, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
6548378 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 128312, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.

April 10, 2013
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 509-13.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C1 Liquor Permit at 4380
State Road and repealing Resolution
No. 1136-12, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C1 Liquor
Permit to State Road Food & Beverage, Inc., DBA Save More Mart,
4380 State Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 8517121 by Resolution No. 1136-12 adopted by the
Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to State Road Food &
Beverage, Inc., DBA Save More Mart,
4380 State Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 8517121, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1136-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 515-13.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cleveland, Westbrook, Pruitt, Cimperman, K. Johnson, Mitchell, Dow, J.
Johnson, Conwell, Miller, Polensek,
Brancatelli,
Kelley,
Brady
and
Keane.
An emergency resolution in support of Mayor Jackson, Mayors
Against Illegal Guns, the National
Council of Jewish Women, States
United to Prevent Gun Violence and
Ohio Coalition Against Gun Violence, and others, in their fight
against gun violence, and calling
upon Congress to take immediate
action to strengthen the national

The City Record
background check system and enact
common sense gun laws in order to
help reduce gun violence in the
United States.
Whereas, gun violence in the United States has escalated to the point
of being epidemic; and
Whereas, Congress has a chance
to
act
now
to
strengthen
the
nation’s gun laws and legislate
national background checks; and
Whereas, a common sense legislative agenda includes federal legislation that will; require every gun
buyer to pass a criminal background
check; get military-style assault
weapons and high-capacity magazines off the streets; and make gun
trafficking a federal crime; and
Whereas,
Mayor
Jackson
has
joined over 900 mayors nationwide
who support stronger gun laws; and
Whereas, law enforcement officials, faith leaders, survivors of gun
violence and other United States citizens want Congress to act immediately to help reduce gun violence;
and
Whereas, Ohio’s Representatives
and Senators in Congress must heed
the country’s call to action and use
their legislative powers to help end
gun violence; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Mayor Jackson, Mayors Against
Illegal Guns, the National Council of
Jewish Women, States United to Prevent Gun Violence and Ohio Coalition
Against Gun Violence, and others, in
their fight against gun violence, and
calls upon Congress to take immediate action to strengthen the national
background check system and enact
common sense gun laws in order to
help reduce gun violence in the United States.
Section 2. That the Clerk is directed
to send copies of this resolution to
President Barack Obama, all members of the U.S. Congress and representatives of the National Council of
Jewish Women, States United to Prevent Gun Violence and Ohio Coalition
Against Gun Violence.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 516-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Westbrook, Sweeney, Kelley, K. Johnson, Mitchell, Brady, Pruitt, Brancatelli, Dow, Zone, Keane and Reed.
An emergency resolution supporting the Service Employees International Union, Local 1 janitors displaced after cleaning The Plain
Dealer office building for over three
decades, and urging The Plain Deal-

571

15
er to put these janitors back to
work and ensure that any cleaning
contractor it hires respects the
unionizing rights of workers and
maintains an acceptable standard of
wages and benefits.
Whereas, this Council believes
that all workers in the City of
Cleveland should be paid enough to
support their families; and
Whereas, this Council is concerned about the increasing disparity in our City between the wealthy
and the poor, and the existence of
too many low-wage jobs keeps citizens in a cycle of poverty; and
Whereas, many of the working
poor are in the service sector, the
fastest growing portion of our economy; and
Whereas, this Council adopted
Resolution No. 417-12 last March 26,
2012 that supported and encouraged
the rights of janitors to a livable
wage, health insurance, job security, safe working conditions and
union contract, and urged owners of
local office buildings to recognize
the hard work of those in their
buildings represented by the Service
Employees
International
Union,
Local 1 (SEIU Local 1); and
Whereas, SEIU, Local 1 has represented janitors at The Plain Dealer building for over three decades,
and janitors have established a standard for wages and benefits in
Downtown Cleveland through their
union; and
Whereas, long term employees
deserve consideration and respect;
and
Whereas, on March 8, 2013 The
Plain Dealer replaced the janitors
with non-union workers; and
Whereas, The Plain Dealer negotiated in good faith with other
unions representing employees at
the newspaper; and
Whereas, The Plain Dealer should
negotiate in good faith with SEIU,
Local 1 to put these displaced janitors back to work instead of hiring
a new cleaning contractor with nonunion workers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Service Employees International Union, Local 1 janitors displaced after cleaning The Plain Dealer office building for over three
decades, and urging The Plain Dealer
to put these janitors back to work and
ensure that any cleaning contractor it
hires respects the unionizing rights
of workers and maintains an acceptable standard of wages and benefits.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Yanela Sims, SEIU,
Local 1 and Terrance C. Z. Egger,
President, Publisher and CEO, The
Plain Dealer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

16
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 517-13.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting
Ohio’s
Energy
Efficiency
Resource and Renewable Portfolio
Standards,
and
urging
Governor
Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to preserve Ohio’s cost-saving
energy efficiency laws and renewable energy laws.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has embraced sustainability, renewable energy, and energy efficiency
through a series of initiatives and
actions over the past decade, including creating Sustainable Cleveland
2019 and passing anti-idling legislation and wind turbine zoning legislation; and
Whereas, important energy efficiency investments have saved our
City money and energy, and put
local citizens to work; and
Whereas, energy efficiency is an
important way to save taxpayer
money and strengthen the City of
Cleveland’s
bottom
line,
cutting
energy waste from our budget; and
Whereas, the American Council
for an Energy Efficient Economy
has established that for every million dollars spent on energy efficiency, 21 jobs are jobs are created;
for every million spent on traditional energy sources only 7 jobs are
created; and
Whereas, the American Council
for an Energy Efficient Economy
estimates that energy efficiency programs across the country cost customers only 2.5 cents per kilowatt
hour, while the cost of new coal generation resources with the appropriate transmission and distribution
improvements cost 11 cents per kilowatt hour; and
Whereas, energy efficiency results
in local investment because it is
focused
on
buildings,
industrial
operations, and homes within our
cities meaning that dollars spent
benefit the local economy; and
Whereas,
current
Ohio
law
requires utilities to participate in
energy efficiency programs that
have been shown to reduce Ohio’s
energy consumption, encourage the
development of energy efficiency
technologies within Ohio, and create
local jobs; and
Whereas, energy efficiency investments pursuant to Ohio’s Energy
Efficiency Resource Standard are
made only when the investments are
cost-effective, meaning the savings
for consumers exceed the costs of
the investments; and
Whereas, the costs consumers and
businesses pay for these energy efficiency programs is far outweighed
by the savings they provide; and
Whereas,
Ohio's
Efficiency
Resource Standard is under threat,
and some would turn back the significant progress made since the
adoption of Senate Bill 221 in 2008,
and
Whereas, rolling back or freezing
Ohio’s energy efficiency standard
will increase energy costs for the
City of Cleveland, its citizens, and
its businesses in a time of recovery
from the worst recession since the
Great Depression; and

The City Record
Whereas,
current
Ohio
law
requires utilities to purchase or generate
energy
from
renewable
sources that have been shown to
reduce Ohio’s energy reliance on
dirty forms of energy, encourage the
development of renewable energy
businesses in Ohio, and create local
jobs; and
Whereas, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio supports a mix of
generation
resources,
including
renewable, to minimize the risks,
including price spikes, associated
with an exclusive reliance on any
one type of electric generation; and
Whereas, Ohio is home to over 400
companies
that
self-identify
as
advanced energy businesses and collectively employ over 25,000 Ohio
residents, according to Advanced
Energy Economy Ohio; and
Whereas,
25,410
Ohioans
were
employed across 22 industry segments in the advanced energy industry in 2010 – the most recent year
data is available – equivalent to
Ohio employment in the agriculture/forestry and mining categories
combined; and
Whereas, according to the American Wind Energy Association, Ohio
has over 50 companies in the Wind
Manufacturing
companies
supply
chain, and Cuyahoga County has
more than any in the state; and
Whereas, 102 MW of Wind was
added to Ohio in 2011 and 308 in
2012, representing the largest capital outlays in state annually; and
Whereas, outside interests are
seeking to have the state’s Renewable Portfolio Standard halted, turning back significant progress made
since the adoption of Senate Bill 221
in 2008; and
Whereas, rolling back of Ohio’s
Renewable Portfolio Standard will
have significant impacts on Ohio’s
public health, economy, and jobs;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports
Ohio’s
Energy
Efficiency
Resource and Renewable Portfolio
Standards, and urging Governor
Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to preserve Ohio’s cost-saving
energy efficiency laws and renewable energy laws.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich,
William Batchelder, the Speaker of
the House, Keith Faber, the President
of the Senate, Peter Stautberg, Chair
of the Ohio House Public Utilities
Committee, William Seitz, the Chair
of the Ohio Senate Public Utilities
Committee, all members of the Ohio
House Public Utilities Committee,
and all members of the Ohio Senate
Public Utilities Committee.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

572

April 10, 2013
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 314-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
water
mains, fire hydrants, water main
appurtenances, service connections,
underground
enclosures,
concrete
repair, and tree lawn restoration,
including material, labor, and installation for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period up to two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 358-13.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
enter into one or more contracts
with LAND Studio, Inc. for professional services necessary to manage
the City’s public art program in
2013, for a period up to one year,
with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of City
Planning.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 6 and
7 in their entirety and insert “The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-0110-6380, RQS
0110, RL 2013-37.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Conwell, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed and Westbrook.
Those voting nay: None.
Absent: Council Members Cummins and Zone.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman recused himself from the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 358-13.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 364-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide environmental, health, safety, sustainability,
engineering,
and
other
services
needed for the Divisions of Water,

The City Record

April 10, 2013
Water Pollution Control and Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period up to
two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the absence of Council Members Matthew Zone from the meeting of April 1, 2013 is hereby authorized. Seconded by Council Member
Cleveland.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Members
Brady, the absences of Council Members Brian J. Cummins and Matthew
Zone are hereby authorized. Seconded by Council Member Reed.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:12 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
15, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 3, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 3, 2013
at 10:50 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Anthony,
Acting
Director,
D.
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 144-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Stark Metal Sales Inc., for an esti-

mated quantity of miscellaneous
sized steel, all items, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period of six months beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on December 14, 2012, under
the authority of Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $156,767.84, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Finance is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and
materials necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such labor and materials,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 145-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Commercial Door Service, Inc.,
dba Cleveland Key & Security, for
an estimated quantity of keys, locks
and hardware services, all items, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on February 22, 2013, under the authority
of Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$250,000.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the labor and materials necessary
for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such labor and materials,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 146-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Bonnie Speed Delivery Inc., for an
estimated quantity of messenger
services, all items, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period of two years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with an option to renew for one
additional year, received on February 27, 2013, under the authority of
Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$200,000.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to

573

17
enter into a requirement contract for
the labor and materials necessary
for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such labor and materials,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 147-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Chagrin Valley
Paving, Inc. for the public improvement of East 72 Street (St. Clair to
North Marginal Road), all items, for
the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, received on February
14, 2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 532-12, passed by Cleveland City Council on June 4, 2012,
upon a unit price basis for the
improvement,
in
the
aggregate
amount of $927,705.20, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors
by
Chagrin
Valley
Paving, Inc. for the above-mentioned
public improvement is approved:
Trafftech, Inc.
(CSB) — $23,026.40 — (2.482%)
Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $55,000.00 — (5.929%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Rush,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 148-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. J. Platten Contracting Co. (CSB/LPE), for the public improvement of Third District
Police
Station
Phase
One
Site
Improvements, for Base Bid Items A
and B, Optional Item 3A and Unit
Price Items 04-01 - 04-04 for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, received on March 6, 2013,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1241-12, passed on September 17,
2012, upon a gross price basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $482,560.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
J.
Platten
Contracting
Co.

The City Record

18
(CSB/LPE) for the aforementioned
public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Ramos Trucking (CSB/MBE)
$72,815.00
15.089%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 149-13.
By Director Flask.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 25, 2013
for Mobile Data Computers, Equipment and Accessories for the Division of Emergency Medical Service,
Department of Public Safety, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 57112, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on May 23, 2012, are
rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 150-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
537-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 14, 2012,
Kevin Robinette, AIA, (CSB/LPE) is
selected upon the nomination of
Director of Public Works from a list
of qualified consultants available
for employment after a full and complete canvass by the Director of
Public Works as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional architectural
and engineering services necessary
to perform an Inventory, Assessment
and Reconstruction of the Historic
Gatehouse at Woodland Cemetery
for the Department of Public Works.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a contract with
Kevin Robinette, AIA, based upon
its proposal January 23, 2013 for a
total cost not to exceed $128,240.00,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for furnishing of professional services as stated in the proposal and
shall contain such other terms and
conditions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Kevin Robinette,
AIA (CSB/LPE) is approved:
SUBCONSULTANT
PERCENTAGE

AMOUNT

I. A. Lewin & Associates (CSB)
$13,460.00
10.496%
Riverstone Co. (CSB)

$11,620.00
9.061%

Knight & Stolar, Inc.
(CSB/FBE)

April 10, 2013
$10,600.00
8.266%

Pro Geotech, Inc. (CSB/MBE)
$10,395.00
8.106%
Smith Architects, LLC
(CSB/FBE)

$ 9,630.00
7.509%

R. Engineering Team, LLC.
(CSB/MBE)
$ 6,100.00
4.757%
Northeast Blueprint (CSB) $ 3,995.00
3.084%
McGuiness Unlimited, Inc.
(CSB/FBE)
$ 3,500.00
2.729%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 151-13.
By Director Rush.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1646-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on December 3,
2012, J. Miller and Associates Inc. is
selected from a list of professional
consultants determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Community Development as
the firm to be employed by contract
to supplement regularly employed
staff to provide grant writing services to apply for two grants from
the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”), Office
of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard
Control for a period up to thirteen
months for the Department of Community Development.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to enter into contract
with J. Miller and Associates Inc.,
based on its proposal dated November 26, 2012, for a period of thirteen
months, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for the furnishing of professional
consultant
services
as
described in the proposal for a fee
not to exceed $35,000.00, and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 152-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 137-07-040 located at 3585 East
117th Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

574

Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jesse Lewis III has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jesse Lewis III
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 137-07-040 located
at 3585 East 117th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 153-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-18-043 located at 3497 West
56th Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Norberto Ramirez and
Melinda Argintina Ramirez have
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent

April 10, 2013
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Norberto Ramirez
and Melinda Argintina Ramirez for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 016-18-043 located at
3497 West 56th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 154-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 002-32-103 located on Bridge
Avenue in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Michael T. O’Connor and
Michael C, Harris have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Michael T. O’Connor and Michael C. Harris for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 002-32-103 located on
Bridge Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.

The City Record
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 155-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 006-03-074 and 006-03-130 located
at 2050 West 80th Street in Ward 15;
and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Allen Amburgey and
Linda Amburgey have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcels for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcels are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Allen Amburgey
and Linda Amburgey for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 006-03-074 and 006-03-130
located at 2050 West 80th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 156-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)

575

19
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-10-093 located at 3235 West
54th Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Deborah Quinones has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Deborah
Quinones for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 01610-093 located at 3235 West 54th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 157-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 116-19-020 located on Syracuse
Avenue in Ward 11; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Collinwood and Nottingham Villages Development Corporation has proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcel for

20
Commercial/Industrial
Expansion;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 11 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Collinwood and
Nottingham Villages Development
Corporation for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 11619-020 located on Syracuse Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $5,000.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Directors
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 158-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 134-21-104 located at 9121 Connecticut Avenue in Ward 2; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Kenneth Wadley has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community

The City Record
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Kenneth Wadley
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 134-21-104 located
at 9121 Connecticut Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 159-13.
By
Interim
Director
Walker
Minor.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1549-11, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on October
31, 2011, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of the Office of
Equal Opportunity, entered into City
Contract No. PS2012-059 with AskReply, Inc., dba B2Gnow, for the acquisition of one or more licenses for a
contract compliance and certification monitoring system, including
designing, installing, integrating,
training, and maintenance for a
period of one year, for the Office of
Equal Opportunity; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with the software
licensing firm; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with a software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain
the
software
system,
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
B2Gnow to renew the necessary software licenses and to obtain software
support and maintenance services
for the contract compliance and certification monitoring system for one
year starting April 1, 2013; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid for license fees
and for maintenance and support
services to be performed under the
contract with B2Gnow for the oneyear term starting April 1, 2013,
shall not exceed $59,850.00
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

576

April 10, 2013
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-49: 1839 Fulton Road
(Ward 3)
Ohio City Tremont, LLC, owner,
and George Preedy appeal to erect
a second floor 12' x 12' triangular
wolmanized wooden deck to an
existing two-family dwelling on an
irregular shaped lot in a B1 TwoFamily District; proposing a rear
yard depth of 11' and 8' where 20'
is required; requesting 4'-10" where
no less than 10' is allowed from a
main building on an adjoining lot,
and proposing 2' for an interior side
yard that requires a minimum of 3'
and a total width of 7' for both interior side yards that requires 10' and
all contrary to the provisions under
Sections 357.09(2)A and B in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-50: 4576-88 West
130th Street (Ward 18)
Lander Day Care Center, Inc.,
owner, and FDBTS, LLC, prospective
purchaser, appeal to construct a
retail store on consolidated lots
located in a C1 General Retail Business District; contrary to Cleveland
Codified Ordinance 357.07(a) the
new store building is proposed to be
right on the property line and a specific setback of 10' is required
along West 130th Street.
Calendar No. 13-51: 7945-8101 Broadway Avenue (Ward 12)
Bud
Brady
Ford,
owner,
and
FDBTS, LLC, prospective purchaser,

The City Record

April 10, 2013
appeal to construct a new retail
store on an irregular shaped lot
split parcel located in zoning for B2
Semi-Industry and C2 General Retail
Business Districts; contrary to Section 357.07(a) in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances,
requesting
15'
from a specific setback of 45' from
the center line along Broadway
Avenue and 6' where a setback
width of 36' is required.
Calendar No. 13-52: 1901 Ford Drive
(Ward 9)
Case Western Reserve University,
owner, and Glidden House Associates Limited Partnership, lessee,
appeal to install a 30' x 60' temporary tent for a period of 180 days on
property located in a D1 University
Retail District for ceremony and
event use; the term “temporary”
defined under Section 325.77 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances as
any main accessory use in any Use
District involving the erection or
occupancy of temporary structures
and the request for a temporary
use/structure for approximately 180
days being subject to the provisions
under Section 347.10(a)(b) that no
temporary use shall be established
until a permit for it has been issued
by the Commissioner of Building
and Housing and that such temporary permit shall not exceed 30 days
in duration and shall not be issued
within 60 days of the expiration of
a previous temporary permit for the
same use on the same premises; and
that such temporary permit shall
constitute a temporary waiver of
off-street parking requirements.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 8,
2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-42: 7801 Lorain
Avenue
Loraine
Montgomery
appealed
from a decision rendered on a Civil
Infraction Ticket issued by the City
of Cleveland Waste Collection Division.
Calendar No. 12-171: 3951 Rocky
River Drive
Bethesda
Lutheran
Home
appealed for a dwelling addition
and to establish a charitable institution for assembly, activity and
office areas for job training and
daytime activities for clients in a B1
Two-Family District; subject to condition for parking agreement.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-202: 4414-20 Pearl
Road
Brian Bodach appealed to change
use from retail to four (4) residential units an existing building in a
C1 Local Retail Business District.

The following
MISSED:

appeal

21
was

DIS-

None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 12-205: 3675 East 65th
Street postponed to June 10, 2013.

NONE

Calendar No. 13-31: 14401 Harvard
Avenue postponed to May 20, 2013.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Calendar No. 13-40: 3682 East 131st
Street postponed to May 20, 2013.

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning

Calendar No. 13-43: 838 Eddy Road
postponed to June 10, 2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on April 1, 2013 were
adopted and approved on April 8,
2013:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-37: 9711 Lamont
Avenue
Friends of Breakthrough School
aka Citizens Leadership Academy
appealed for an addition to an existing school building in an E2 MultiFamily District.
Calendar No. 13-38: 9200 Buckeye
Road
Miceli-Lograsso Development Company appealed to install 6-foot high
ornamental fence in the front yard
of acreage in a C2 General Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 13-39: 11125 Magnolia
Drive
Cleveland Music School Settlement
appealed to install a temporary tent
from April 9 to October 9, 2013 in an
AA1 One-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-19: 14805 St. Clair
Avenue
East 131 Church of God in Christ
appealed for a change of use from
a barber shop to a church an existing building in split zoning between
C2 General Retail Business and B1
Two-Family Districts.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-207: 4455 Pearl
Road
Matthew Fuchs appealed to establish use as an open sales lot/farmers’ market in a B1 Two-Family Residential and C1 Local Retail Business District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on March 25 2013 was adopted and approved.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-35: 2916 Central
Avenue
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority, owner, and Care Alliance,
prospective lessee, appealed to construct a health center and accessory parking lot in a C1 Multi-Family
District.
Secretary

577

_____________

Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, April 24, 2013
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, April 24, 2013, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 133-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands located on the southwest corner of Fulton Road and Bailey Avenue to Two
Family Residential, and a ‘1’ Height
District or a Local Retail Business
District as indicated on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2402).
Ord. No. 196-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Jonell Centre (formerly
the Garfield Savings Bank and the
Cleveland Trust Company) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 197-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church (formerly the
Morison Avenue Communal Baths)
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 316-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Craig Motor Company
Building (also known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn
Building) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 317-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 318-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance designating Villa Angela-St. Joseph High
School as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 319-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Fine Arts Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.

The City Record

22
Ord. No. 320-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
located at Pershing and Interstate
77 to General Industry, an ‘A’ Area
District and a 3 Height District
(Map Change No. 2405).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
April 10, 2013 and April 17, 2013

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
DIVISION OF TREASURY
STATEMENT OF CASH
MANAGEMENT AND
INVESTMENT POLICY

Table of Contents

Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scope of Investment Policy. . . . .
Investment Objectives . . . . . . . . . .
Delegation of Authority . . . . . . . .
Standard of Prudence . . . . . . . . . .
Ethics and Conflict of Interest .
Authorized Investments . . . . . . . .
Diversification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maximum Maturity . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prohibited Investments and
Investment Practices . . . . . . . . .
Monitoring and Adjusting the
Portfolio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal Controls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eligible Banks and
Broker/Dealers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Competitive Selection of
Investment Instruments . . . . . .
Safekeeping and Custody. . . . . . .
Performance Standards . . . . . . . . .
Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Conflict of Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Investment Policy Effective
Date. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Scope of the Investment Policy

Standard of Prudence

This policy applies to the investment of all moneys of the City of
Cleveland under the custody and
control of the Division of Treasury.
Any practice not clearly authorized
under this policy is prohibited. The
guidance set forth herein is to be
strictly followed by all those responsible for any aspect of the management or administration of these
funds.

The standard of prudence to be
applied to the investment of the City
of Cleveland shall be the industry
standard “Prudent Investor Rule”,
which states:

The City’s investments shall be segregated into distinct portfolios, including portfolios for the General
Fund, and the Divisions of Water,
Airport, Utilities, Cemeteries, Safety,
and Railroads. Total Average Portfolio, as defined in this policy, shall
mean the average of the month-end
market values for the prior twelve
(12) month period of an individual
portfolio.

Investment Objectives

Effective April 9, 2009

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

3
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
6

..6
..6
..7
..7
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

7
8
8
8
8

..8

Purpose
The purpose of this document is to
identify the policy that will govern
the investment activities of the
Treasurer’s Office of the City of
Cleveland. This policy has been
adopted by, and, if necessary, will
be revised on an annual basis by,
the Director of Finance.
This policy is designed to ensure
prudent
management
of
public
funds, conformance to Chapter 178
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, availability of
operating and capital funds when
needed, and an investment return
competitive with comparable funds
and financial market indices.
All participants in the investment
process shall act responsibly as custodians of the public trust. Investment officials shall recognize that
the investment portfolio is subject
to public review and evaluation. The
overall program shall be designed
and managed with a degree of professionalism that is worthy of the
public trust.

April 10, 2013

All Portfolios shall be managed to
accomplish the following hierarchy
of objectives:
1.  Preservation of Principal – The
single most important objective
of the City of Cleveland investment program is the preservation of principal of those funds
within the Portfolio.
2.  Maintenance of Liquidity – The
Portfolio shall be managed in
such a manner that assures that
funds are available as needed to
meet those immediate and/or
future operating requirements
of the City of Cleveland.
3.  Maximize Return – The Portfolio shall be managed in such a
fashion as to attain a marketaverage rate of return throughout budgetary and economic
cycles, within the context and
parameters set forth by objectives 1 and 2 above.

Delegation of Authority
The Treasurer is responsible for the
prudent investment of the City of
Cleveland Treasury and shall oversee the establishment of investment
procedures consistent with this policy. Such procedures shall include
explicit delegation of authority to
persons responsible for investment
transactions. No person may engage
in an investment transaction except
as provided under the terms of this
policy and the procedures established by the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be responsible for all
trades undertaken, and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and shall exercise control over
that staff. Investment staff shall be
bonded in amounts appropriate to
levels of responsibility and portfolio
characteristics.
The City’s Internal Auditor will
review the investment program to
ensure compliance with this policy.

578

“Investments shall be made with
judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing which
persons of prudence, discretion
and intelligence exercise in the
management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as
well as the probable income to
be derived.”
Treasury staff acting in accordance
with this policy or any other written procedures pertaining to the
administration and management of
the City of Cleveland and who exercise the proper due diligence shall
be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided that these deviations are
reported immediately to the Treasurer and that appropriate action is
taken to control and prevent any
further adverse developments.

Ethics and Conflict of Interest
Employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution
and management of the investment
program, or that could impair their
ability to make impartial decisions.
Further, no employee involved in
the investment process shall use the
authority to influence of office or
employment to secure anything of
value or the promise or offer of anything of value that would create an
improper influence upon the public
official or employee with respect to
that person’s duties.
Employees and investment officials
shall comply fully with the reporting and disclosure requirements of
Chapter 102 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

Authorized Instruments
The Treasurer is authorized to invest the City of Cleveland in instruments as described in section 178.12
of the Codified Ordinances as summarized and restricted below:
A.  U.S. Treasury Obligations. United
States Treasury bills, notes, or
any other obligation or security
issued by the United States Treasury or any other obligation
guaranteed as to principal and
interest by the United States.
B.  Federal Agency Obligations. Bonds,
notes, debentures, or other obligations or securities issued by any
federal government agency or
instrumentality.
C.  State and Municipal Bonds and
Notes. Bonds and notes of the
State of Ohio, and any municipal
corporation, village, county, town-

The City Record

April 10, 2013
ship, or other political subdivision
of Ohio for which the full faith
and credit of the subdivision is
pledged, so long as such subdivision has not defaulted in the payment of principal or interest on
its bonds or notes within the last
ten (10) years.
D.  State Pool. State of Ohio Local
Agency Investment Pool (STAR
Ohio) authorized under section
135.45 of the Ohio Revised Code.
E.  Bank Deposits. Time certificates
of deposit (not to exceed one [1]
year)
or
savings
or
deposit
accounts in an eligible institution as defined in Chapter 178 of
the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland. Collateralization is required on all deposits of
City funds as stated in Chapter
178 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland.
F.  U.S. Government money market
mutual funds. Issued by open
ended investment companies registered with the SEC, with an
average maturity of one hundred
twenty (120) days or less, which
have the objective of maintaining a constant net asset value
per share, and which invest exclusively in U.S. Treasury Obligations, Federal Agency Obligations, and repurchase agreements
secured by such obligations.
G.  Repurchase Agreements. Specific
agreements shall not exceed a
term of one (1) year with any eligible depository or designated
securities broker/dealer which
has entered into a master repurchase agreement pursuant to Codified Ordinance Section 178.12, division (c), under the terms of
which agreement the City Treasurer purchases for the City, and
such eligible depository or securities broker/dealer agrees to
unconditionally repurchase, any
of the securities listed in Section
178.12, divisions (b)(1), (b)(2), or
(b)(3), of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.

Diversification
Each Portfolio shall be structured to
diversify investments to reduce the
risk of loss resulting from over-concentration of assets in a specific
maturity, a specific issuer or a specific type of security. The maximum
percentage of the Total Average
Portfolio permitted in each security
is as follows:
A. U.S. Treasury
B. Federal Agency
(Fixed Rate)
C. Federal Agency
(Callable)
D. Certificates of
Deposit
E. Repurchase
Agreements
F. State Bonds and
Notes
G. Municipal Bonds
and Notes
H. STAR Ohio
I. Money Market
Mutual Funds

100% maximum

Each Portfolio will be further diversified to limit the exposure to any
one issuer. No more than 2% of the
Total Average Portfolio will be
invested in the securities of any single issuer with the following exceptions:
U.S. Government
Obligations
100% maximum
Money Market
Mutual Funds
10% maximum
Repurchase Agreements
Counterparties
5% maximum

Maximum Maturity
Maintenance of adequate liquidity to
meet the cash flow needs of the City
is essential. Accordingly, each Portfolio will be structured in a manner
that ensures sufficient cash is available to meet anticipated liquidity
needs. Selection of investment maturities must be consistent with the
cash requirements in order to avoid
the forced sale of securities prior to
maturity.
Assets will be invested in permitted
investments with a stated maturity
of no more than five (5) years from
the date of purchase unless the security is matched to a specific obligation or debt of the City. To control
the volatility of the assets, the Treasurer of the City will determine a
duration target, not to exceed three
(3) years.
Notwithstanding these limitations,
in no case will the assets in any
Portfolio be invested in securities
with
a
term
to
maturity
that
exceeds the expected disbursement
date of those funds.

Prohibited Investments and
Investment Practices
The Treasurer is expressly prohibited from the following investments
and investment practices. This is
not an exclusive list.
1.  Short sales (selling a specific
security before it has been
legally purchased);
2.  Investment in complex derivatives such as range notes, dual
index notes, inverse floating
rate
notes
and
deleveraged
notes, or notes linked to lagging
indices or to long-term indices;
3.  Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and real estate
mortgage investment conduits
(REMICs);
4.  Investing in any security not
specifically permitted by this
Policy.

100% maximum
55% maximum
25% maximum
25% maximum
10% maximum
10% maximum
75% maximum
75% maximum

Monitoring and Adjusting the
Portfolio
Those responsible for the day-to-day
management of the Portfolios will
routinely monitor the contents of
each Portfolio, the available markets and the relative values of competing instruments, and will adjust
each Portfolio as necessary to meet
the
investment
objectives
listed
above. It is recognized and understood that this non-speculative ac-

579

23
tive management of Portfolio holdings may cause a loss on the sale
of an owned investment. It is the
policy of the City of Cleveland to
charge any such loss against the
interest income account during the
month in which the loss was realized.
The City of Cleveland Office of Budget and Management, on a quarterly
basis,
allocates
the
net
income/losses earned on investments
of the General Revenue Account to
various funds based on each fund’s
cash balance in proportion to the
City of Cleveland as a whole.

Internal Controls
The City Treasurer is responsible
for monitoring a system of internal
controls governing the administration and management of the Portfolio which include a review of all
investment activity, trade reconciliation, and targeting cash balances.
Such controls are designed to prevent and control losses of the City
funds arising from fraud, employee
error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in
financial
markets,
or
imprudent
actions by any personnel. The internal controls address: control of collusion, separation of duties, separating transaction authority from
accounting and record keeping, custodial safekeeping, clear delegation
of authority, written confirmation of
telephone transactions, minimizing
the number of authorized investments officials and documentation
of investment transactions.

Eligible Banks and Broker/Dealers
The Director of Finance will establish and the Treasurer will maintain
a list of eligible brokers, dealers,
and banks with which investment
can
be
made,
as
transactions
described in Section 178.11 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland. Qualified firms will be
limited to “primary” dealers and
other dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule) that are registered with
the Ohio Department of Commerce
to do business in the State of Ohio.
All financial institutions and broker
dealers must provide the following
information, on an annual basis:
1.  Sworn statement pledging to
adhere to “Capital Adequacy
Standards”
2.  Annual financial statements for
the most recent year showing
the amount of liquid capital
3.  A written statement from a certified public accountant certifying no weakness in the internal
systems of controls of the dealer or broker were found
4.  A completed “Broker/Dealer Request for Information” and all
documentation required by Section 178.12 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.

24
Preference will be given to banks
and broker/dealers who are headquartered or maintain a presence in
the City of Cleveland.
Financial
institutions
and
broker/dealers will be required to comply with this policy and to pledge
to offer for sale only appropriate
securities.

Competitive Selection of Investment
Instruments
It will be the policy of the Treasurer to transact all security purchases/sales only with approved
financial institutions through a competitive process. The City shall
accept the offer which (a) has the
highest rate of return within the
maturity required; and (b) optimizes
the investment objective of the overall portfolio. When selling a security, the Treasurer will select the bid
that generates the highest sale
price.
Primary fixed price Federal Agency
offerings may be purchased from
the list of qualified broker/dealers
without competitive solicitation.
In making investment decisions, all
other things being equal and subject
to compliance with any applicable
Internal Revenue Code requirements
for bond proceeds, investment in corporations and financial institutions
doing business in the City of Cleveland will be given preference over
other investment options.

The City Record
Reporting
The City Treasury shall maintain
accurate,
complete,
and
timely
records of all investment activities.
Each business day, the Treasurer
shall provide the Commissioner of
Accounts and the City Controller a
sworn statement (Daily Treasurer’s
Report) showing the total amount
deposited in and withdrawn from
each depository from the preceding
business day. Within fifteen (15)
business days of the end of the
month, the City Treasurer shall submit an investment report to the
Director of Finance. This report
shall include: (i.) a listing of the
existing
portfolios
in
terms
of
investment securities, book value,
maturity date, return, market value,
and other features deemed relevant,
(ii.) a listing of all transactions executed during the month. The City
Treasurer will also prepare annual
reports in sufficient detail to provide full disclosure of all investment
activities to the Director of Finance.

Conflict of Law
In the event that any portion of this
policy is in conflict with any City,
State, or Federal law, that law will
prevail.

All securities in the Portfolio shall
be held in the name of the Treasurer of the City of Cleveland and
will be free and clear of any lien.
Further, all investment transactions
will be conducted on a delivery-vs.payment basis. The depository shall
issue a safekeeping receipt to the
Treasurer listing the specific instrument, rate, maturity and other
pertinent information.
Appropriate Treasury officials and
representatives of the depository
responsible for, or in any manner
involved with, the safekeeping and
custody process of the City of Cleveland shall be bonded in such a fashion as to protect the City from losses from malfeasance and misfeasance.

Performance Standards
The investment portfolios shall be
designed and managed with the
objective of obtaining a market rate
of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, commensurate with
the investment risk constraints and
cash flows needs of the City.

to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 2013
File No. 62-13 — Purchase of Traffic Paint and Related Material,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 249-12 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 4, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF TRAFFIC
ENGINEERING, ROOM 25, 601
AVENUE,
CLEVELAKESIDE
LAND, OHIO 44114.

Investment Policy Effective Date
FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2013
This policy is adopted this 9th day
of April 2009 and shall remain in
effect until rescinded or amended by
the Director of Finance.
Sharon Dumas
Director of Finance

Safekeeping and Custody
All investment securities purchased
by the Treasurer or held as collateral on deposits or investments shall
be held in third-party safekeeping at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland or at a secured and insured
depository as required by Chapter
178 of the City of Cleveland Codified
Ordinance and Section 113.05 of the
Ohio Revised Code.

April 10, 2013

_____
April 10, 2013

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing

580

File
No.
63-13
—
Purchase
of
138/13.8kV Power Transformers
for Harvard Substation, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 556-08 passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 9,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 AT 10:00
A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
1300
LAKESIDE
BUILDING,
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 64-13 — Purchase of 15KV
Walk-in Switchgear for Harvard
Substation, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 556-08
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 9, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 2013 AT 11:00
A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
April 3, 2013 and April 10, 2013
FRIDAY, MAY 3, 2013
File
No.
65-13
—
Water
Main
Replacement On Hickory Lane in
the City of Seven Hills, Ohio, for
the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities and as
authorized by Ordinance No. 172712 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 4,
2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE

April 10, 2013
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 66-13 — Purchase of Labor
and Materials for the Repair of
and Purchase of Repairs Parts
for
Pumps,
Saws
and
Small
Engines, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities and as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
10:30 A.M. THE DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE
PIPE
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
April 10, 2013 and April 17, 2013
WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 2013
File No. 67-13 — Labor and Materials to Maintain/Repair/Refurbish
Various
Material
Handling
Equipment, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities and as authorized by Ordinance No. 1630-12 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 3, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 68-13 — Labor and Materials to Test, Inspect, Maintain,
Repair, Enhance or Replace Electronic Security Systems, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities and as authorized
by Ordinance No. 1216-11 passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, October 10, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 10, 2013 and April 17, 2013

The City Record
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 483-13.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4281 West 130th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Walgreen Co.,
DBA Walgreens, #03234, 4281 West
130th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135,
Permit Number 935794132340; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Walgreen Co., DBA
Walgreens, #03234, 4281 West 130th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permit
Number 935794132340; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

581

25
Ord. No. 67-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to apply for and accept a
grant from the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation and PEW Charitable
Trusts for the Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City
Planning, in coordination with the
Director of Public Health, is authorized to apply for and accept a grant
in the approximate amount up to
$250,000, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term from the Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation and PEW Charitable Trusts to conduct the Health
Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the Health
Impact Assessment Factsheet and the
2012 Call for Proposal book for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the Health Impact
Assessment Factsheet and the 2012
Call for Proposal book for the grant,
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at a public hearing on
this legislation and set forth in File
No. 67-13-A, is made a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities,
or individuals to provide advisory services to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of the City Planning Commission may
sign all documents and do all things
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process. The contracts will be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any grant funds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

26
Ord. No. 127-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
Departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
grants
from
the
United
States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the CDBG Year 39
under the Title I of the Housing and
Community
Development
Act
of
1974, for the 2013 Federal HOME
Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept grants
from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
in
the
following
approximate
amounts: $19,039,000 to conduct the
2013 Year 39 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program;
$3,832,000 to conduct the Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
(HOME) Program; $1,781,000 to conduct the Emergency Solutions Grant
(ESG) Program; and $918,000 for the
Housing Opportunities for Persons
with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, for
the purposes and uses set forth in
the budgets and in compliance with
the requirements of Title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and applicable
rules and regulations. That the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grants,
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the budgets for the grants.
Section 2. That the budget allocations, reconciled 2013 CDBG Year 39
Budget, and the Comparison of HUD
Budget 2012-2013, placed in File No.
127-13-B, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, are approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

Ord. No. 356-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Lease
Agreement No. 69361 with Premier
Flight Academy, Ltd. to increase the
leased premises at Burke Lakefront
Airport being used for office space
for flight training and related services, for a period up to five months;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Premier Flight Academy, Ltd. for

The City Record
the lease of office space at Burke
Lakefront Airport for flight training
and to provide related services, for
the Department of Port Control, for
a period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which requires additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 358-09, passed May 4,
2009, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 69361 with
Premier Flight Academy, Ltd. (“Premier”) for the use and occupancy of
space located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for activities necessary for
training and instruction of student
pilots; and
Whereas,
modifications
are
desired to Lease Agreement No.
69361; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Lease Agreement No. 69361 with Premier, to
increase the leased premises by
approximately 324 square feet to be
located in Room 149 of the passenger terminal building, for a period
not to exceed five months, beginning March 1, 2013, and ending July
31, 2013. The cost of the increased
area shall be the same as the per
square foot price set in Lease Agreement No. 69361, payable to the City
under the same terms as set forth
in the Lease Agreement.
Section 2. That, effective August 1,
2013, the Director of Port Control is au
to renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exerc
The rent shall be paid in monthly
installments due on the first day of
each month during the term of the
Lease.
Section 3. That the lease may authorize Premier to make improvements
to the leased premises subject to the
approval of appropriate officials.
Section 4. That the Lease and Lease
Amendment authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

Ord. No. 361-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
AirNet Systems, Inc. for the lease of
space in the passenger terminal
building at Burke Lakefront Airport
to be used for flight planning and
as a crew layover rest area, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.

582

April 10, 2013
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with AirNet Systems, Inc. (“Lessee”)
for use and occupancy of approximately 149 square feet of office
space located in Room 105 of the
passenger
terminal
building
at
Burke Lakefront Airport (“Leased
Premises”) to be used for flight
planning and as a crew layover rest
area. The term of the Lease shall
be for a two year period, with two
one-year options to renew. The first
one-year option to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority.
If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the one-year option to renew is exercised, then the second one-year
option to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. For use of the Leased
Premises, Lessee shall pay the City
an annual fair market value rate of
$2,011.56, which is equal to $13.50 per
square foot, payable in equal monthly installments.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

Ord. No. 362-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
World Wide Flight Services for the
lease of space in the South Cargo
Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for operation of an air cargo facility, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with World Wide Flight Services
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy of
approximately 3,500 square feet of
space located in the South Cargo
Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (“Leased
Premises”) for operation of an air
cargo facility. The term of the
Lease shall be for a two year period, with two one-year options to

April 10, 2013
renew. The first one-year option to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the one-year option
to renew is exercised, then the second one-year option to renew may
be exercisable at the option of the
Director of Port Control, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. For use of
the Leased Premises, Lessee shall
pay the City an annual rate of
$32,375.00, which is equal to $9.25 per
square foot, payable in equal monthly installments.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

Ord. No. 365-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide quality assurance and surveying services for airport-related projects, for a period of
one
year,
with
three
one-year
options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide quality assurance and
surveying services for airport-related projects, for a period of one year,
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control. The
first of the one-year options to
renew may be exercised by the
Director of Port Control, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. The second of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional legislative authority is
granted and the second of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the third of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available

The City Record
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 106, 60 SF 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116,
60 SF 117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF
122, 60 SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60
SF 141, 60 SF 160, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
proceeds accepted for the purposes of
this ordinance and any passenger
facility charges, if authorized for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 3001, RL
2013-29.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

Ord. No. 482-13.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Health to enter into an
agreement with the Cleveland Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center for
the Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Clinic:
Minority Men’s Health Center for
the Minority’s Men’s Health and
Community Health Education Event
for the public purpose of educating
city of Cleveland residents on disease prevention and maintaining
good health through the use of
Ward
9
Neighborhood
Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

583

27
Ord. No. 484-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Frozen Dessert
Mobile Permit to Adam Boda to
engage in mobile vending in Ward
3.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, This Council has considered the request of Adam Boda to
engage in mobile vending outside of
the Central Business district, and
has determined that it is in the public interest to allow Adam Boda to
engage in mobile vending in Ward
3; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
to Adam Boda to engage in mobile
vending in the public rights of way
in Ward 3.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted may be revoked at any time by this
Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 1, 2013.
Effective April 4, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, April 8, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Conwell, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek. Pro tempore: Sweeney.
11:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee: Present:
Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson, Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Authorized
Absence:
Sweeney.
Cleveland. Pro tempore: Keane.
2:00 p.m.
City
Planning
Committee,
&
Finance Committee:
Present
in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brady, Dow,
Keane, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Conwell. Present in Finance: Kelley,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Miller.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Present: Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt,
Zone.
Authorized
Westbrook,
Absence: Miller.

The City Record

28

April 10, 2013

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Cleveland Senior Day, 2013 — Grant — Sisters Of Charity Foundation Of Cleveland (F 498-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Agreements
Minority Men’s Health And Community Health Educational Event — Cleveland Clinic: Minority
Men’s Health Center — Health Department (Ward 09 NCF) (O 482-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

AIDS
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2013 — Emergency Solutions Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year 39 — Community
Development Department — Grants (O 127-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

Assessment Equalization Board
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. and East 151 St. — approve report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
East 72nd Street improvements (St. Clair Ave. to North Marginal Rd.) — per Ord. 532-12
to Chagrin Valley Paving, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction
(BOC Res. 147-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Bridge Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 002-32-103 — Michael T. O’Conner and Michael C. Harris
(BOC Res. 154-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Connecticut Avenue, 9121 (Ward 2) — PPN 134-21-104 — Kenneth Wadley (BOC Res. 158-13) . . . .
East 117th Street, 3585 (Ward 6) — PPN 137-07-040 — Jesse Lewis, III (BOC Res. 152-13) . . . . . . . .
Grant writing services — per Ord. 1646-12 to J. Miller and Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 151-13) . . . .
Syracuse Avenue (Ward 11) — PPN 116-19-020 — Collinwood and Nottingham Development
Corporation (BOC Res. 157-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 54th Street, 3235 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-10-093 — Deborah Quinones (BOC Res. 156-13) . . . . .
West 56th Street, 3497 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-18-043 — Norberto Ramirez and
Melinda Argintina Ramirez (BOC Res. 153-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 81st Street, 2050 (Ward 15) — PPN 006-03-074/130 — Allen Amburgey and Linda Amburgey
(BOC Res. 155-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

575
576
574
574

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575

Board of Control — Emergency Medical Service Division
Computer, Mobile Data — per Ord. 571-12 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 149-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
East 72nd Street improvements (St. Clair Ave. to North Marginal Rd.) — per Ord. 532-12
to Chagrin Valley Paving, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 147-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Control — Equal Opportunity Office
Contract compliance and certification monitoring systems — renew Contract
#PS2012-059 with AskReply, Inc., dba B2Gnow (BOC Res. 159-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

Board of Control — Finance Department
Keys, locks and hardware — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Commercial Door Services, Inc.,
d.b.a. Cleveland Key & Security (BOC Res. 145-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
Messenger services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Bonnie Speed Delivery, Inc. (BOC Res. 146-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
Steel, miscellaneous sizes — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Stark Metal Sales, Inc. — Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 144-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

584

April 10, 2013

The City Record

29

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Bridge Avenue (Ward 15) — PPN 002-32-103 — Michael T. O’Conner and Michael C. Harris
(BOC Res. 154-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Connecticut Avenue, 9121 (Ward 2) — PPN 134-21-104 — Kenneth Wadley (BOC Res. 158-13) . . . .
East 117th Street, 3585 (Ward 6) — PPN 137-07-040 — Jesse Lewis, III (BOC Res. 152-13) . . . . . . . .
Syracuse Avenue (Ward 11) — PPN 116-19-020 — Collinwood and Nottingham Development
Corporation (BOC Res. 157-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 54th Street, 3235 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-10-093 — Deborah Quinones (BOC Res. 156-13) . . . . .
West 56th Street, 3497 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-18-043 — Norberto Ramirez and
Melinda Argintina Ramirez (BOC Res. 153-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 81st Street, 2050 (Ward 15) — PPN 006-03-074/130 — Allen Amburgey and Linda Amburgey
(BOC Res. 155-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575

Board of Control — Police Division
Third District Police Station, Phase I improvements — per Ord. 1241-12 to R.J. Platten
Contracting Co. — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 148-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Architectural and engineering services for Historic Gatehouse at Woodland Cemetery — per
Ord. 537-12 to Kevin Robinette, AIA — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 150-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
Contract compliance and certification monitoring systems — renew Contract
#PS2012-059 with AskReply, Inc., dba B2Gnow — Office of Equal Opportunity
(BOC Res. 159-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Grant writing services — per Ord. 1646-12 to J. Miller and Associates, Inc. — Dept. of
Community Development (BOC Res. 151-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
East 72nd Street improvements (St. Clair Ave. to North Marginal Rd.) — per Ord. 532-12
to Chagrin Valley Paving, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office
of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 147-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
Third District Police Station, Phase I improvements — per Ord. 1241-12 to R.J. Platten
Contracting Co. — Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 148-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Computer, Mobile Data — per Ord. 571-12 — all bids rejected — Division of Emergency
Medical Service (BOC Res. 149-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
Third District Police Station, Phase I improvements — per Ord. 1241-12 to R.J. Platten
Contracting Co. — Division of Police (BOC Res. 148-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Architectural and engineering services for Historic Gatehouse at Woodland Cemetery — per
Ord. 537-12 to Kevin Robinette, AIA (BOC Res. 150-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Keys, locks and hardware — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Commercial Door Services, Inc.,
d.b.a. Cleveland Key & Security — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 145-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
Messenger services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Bonnie Speed Delivery, Inc. — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 146-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
Steel, miscellaneous sizes — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Stark Metal Sales, Inc. — Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 144-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Buckeye Road, 9200, (Ward 4) – Miceli-Lograsso Development Company, dba Miceli Dairy
Products, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-38) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue, 2916, (Ward 5) – Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA), owner
and Care Alliance, prospective lessee — appeal granted and adopted on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-35)
East 131st Street, 3682, (Ward 4) – Anderson Davis, owner — appeal postponed to 5/20/13
on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3675, (Ward 12) – Mosinski Funeral Homes, Inc., owner —
appeal postponed to 6/10/13 on 4/8/13 (Cal. 12-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Road, 838, (Ward 10) – Sip One, LLC, owner and Sam Salti, dba Affordable
Rubber, tenant — appeal postponed to 6/10/13 on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 14401, (Ward 1) – Eleare Kinney, owner and Robert Meadows, prospective
tenant — appeal postponed to 5/20/13 on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lamont Avenue, 9711, (Ward 7) – Friends of Breakthrough School, aka Citizens Leadership
Academy, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-37). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 7801, (Ward 15) – Loraine Montgomery, owner — appeal heard on 4/8/13
(Cal. 13-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577

The City Record

30

April 10, 2013

Magnolia Drive, 11125, (Ward 8) – Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-39) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4414-20, (Ward 13) – Brian Bodach, owner — appeal heard on 4/8/13 (Cal. 12-202) .
Pearl Road, 4455, (Ward 13) – Matthew Fuchs, owner — appeal denied and adopted on 4/8/13
(Cal. 12-207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 3951, (Ward 19) – Bethesda Lutheran Home, owner — appeal heard
on 4/8/13 (Cal. 12-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 14805, (Ward 10) – East 131 Church of God in Christ, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/8/13 (Cal. 13-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Broadway Avenue, 7945-8101, (Ward 12) – Bud Brady Ford, owner, and FDBTS, LLC,
prospective purchaser — appeal to be heard on 4/22/13 (Cal. 13-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford Drive, 1901, (Ward 9) – Case Western Reserve University, owner, and Glidden House
Associates Limited Partnership, lessee — appeal to be heard on 4/22/13 (Cal. 13-52) . . . .
Fulton Road, 1839, (Ward 3) – Ohio City Tremont, LLC, owner, and George Preedy — appeal
to be heard on 4/22/13 (Cal. 13-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4576-88, (Ward 18) – Lander Day Care Center, Inc., owner, and FDBTS,
LLC, prospective purchaser — appeal to be heard on 4/22/13 (Cal. 13-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

Burke Lakefront Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office Space — Flight Training — Premier Flight Academy — Amend Lease Agreement No.
69361 — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 356-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — lease — USS Cod — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Space — Flight Planning and Crew Layover Rest Area — AIRNET Systems, Inc. —
Lease Agreement — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 361-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

Capital Projects
Boda, Adam — permits — Mobile Vending (Ward 03) (O 484-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd., and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way —
City Planning Commission (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — approve report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

City of Cleveland Bids
Electronic Security Systems — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
Ord. 1216-11 — bid due May 22, 2013 (advertised 4/10/2013 and 4/17/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Material handling equipment maintenance, repair and refurbishment — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1630-12 — bid due May 22, 2013 (advertised
4/10/2013 and 4/17/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint, traffic and related materials — Department of Public Works — Division of Traffic
Engineering and Parking — per Ord. 249-12 — bid due April 25, 2013 (advertised 4/3/2013
and 4/10/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 3, 2013 (advertised 4/10/2013
and 4/17/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Switchgear, walk-in, 15kV for Harvard Substation — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 556-08 — bid due April 26, 2013
(advertised 4/3/2013 and 4/10/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers, 138/13.8kV for Harvard Substation — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 556-08 — bid due April 26, 2013
(advertised 4/3/2013 and 4/10/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water main replacement on Hickory Lane (City of Seven Hills) — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1727-12 — bid due May 3, 2013 (advertised
4/10/2013 and 4/17/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

City Planning Commission
Amend Section 559.239 and Enact New Section 559.246 — Korean Cultural Garden and Russian
Cultural Garden (O 487-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District (Ward
11) (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way
Capital Projects (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark (Ward
08) (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

586

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

April 10, 2013

The City Record

Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — Grant — Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation & Pew Charitable Trusts (O 67-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Studio, Inc. — professional service — contracts — Manage The City’s Public Art Program
In 2013 (O 358-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waverly Station Subdivision Phase I — Dedication Plat of roadway South of
Bridge Ave. (Between West 57th St. and West 58th St.) (Ward 15) (F 500-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodworth Ave. and Hayden Ave. — Change Use District (Ward 10) (O 511-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

31
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Minority Men’s Health And Community Health Educational Event — agreement — Health
Department (Ward 09 NCF) (O 482-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Air Cargo Facility — lease agreement — World Wide Flight Services (O 362-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

Cleveland Metropolitan Park District
Authorize Metroparks lease agreement for Lakefront Parks (O 504-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Water Division —
Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572

Codified Ordinances
Amend 431.03 — Overtaking, Passing To Left ; Driver’s Duties (O 518-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
Amend Section 559.239 and Enact New Section 559.246 — Korean Cultural Garden and Russian
Cultural Garden (O 487-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Communications
Cash Management and Investment Policy — Finance Department (F 499-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Senior Day, 2013 — Grant — Sisters Of Charity Foundation Of Cleveland — Aging
Department (F 498-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lexington Village Phase I — Revised Public Notification Letter — McCormack Baron Salazar —
OHFA Application (Ward 07) (F 510-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waverly Station Subdivision Phase I — Dedication Plat of roadway South of
Bridge Ave. (Between West 57th St. and West 58th St.) — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (F 500-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Community Development
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2013 — Emergency Solutions Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year 39 — Grants (O 127-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

Community Development Block Grant Program
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2013 — Emergency Solutions Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year 39 — Community
Development Department — Grants (O 127-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

Community Relations
Juvenile Community Diversion Program, 2013 — Grant — Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court
(O 488-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Condolences
Cummings, Lonzita K. (R 519-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Franklin, Sr., Almond Charles (R 520-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

587

The City Record

32

April 10, 2013

Congratulations
Block, Rabbi Richard A. (R 524-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clevelandpeople.com (R 522-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. — 100th Anniversary (R 521-13)
Fredrich, Carol M. (R 525-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Cleveland Kiwanis Club (R 523-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

560
560
560
560
560

Contracts
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — grant — Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation & Pew Charitable Trusts (O 67-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Studio, Inc. — professional service — Manage The City’s Public Art Program In 2013 —
City Planning Commission (O 358-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Professional Services for Quality Assurance and Surveying Services
for Airport-Related Projects (O 365-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Grant — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . .
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair —
Water Division (O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . 562

. . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . 581
. . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . 583
. . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . 572

Cuyahoga County
Juvenile Community Diversion Program, 2013 — Grant — Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court —
Community Relations (O 488-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Grant — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Economic Development Department
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Economic Development Department (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Finance Department
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
Cash Management and Investment Policy — Finance Department (F 499-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Grants
Cleveland Senior Day, 2013 — Sisters Of Charity Foundation Of Cleveland — Aging Department
(F 498-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2013 — Emergency Solutions Program —
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year 39 — Community
Development Department (O 127-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation & Pew Charitable Trusts (O.67-13
Juvenile Community Diversion Program, 2013 — Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court —
Community Relations (O 488-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Health Department
Minority Men’s Health And Community Health Educational Event — agreement — Cleveland
Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center (Ward 09 NCF) (O 482-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Landmark Commission
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 505-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 506-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

588

April 10, 2013

The City Record

33

Lease Agreement
Air Cargo Facility — World Wide Flight Services — CHIA (O 362-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorize Metroparks lease agreement for Lakefront Parks (O 504-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office Space — Flight Training — Premier Flight Academy — Amend Lease Agreement No.
69361 — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 356-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Space — Flight Planning and Crew Layover Rest Area — AIRNET Systems, Inc. —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 361-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminate State lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Leases
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562
Parking Lot 9 — USS Cod — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

Liquor Permits
Dolloff Rd., 5346 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 05) (F 501-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 507-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 16826 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1283-11 (Ward 11)
(R 508-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Ave., 2393 — Economic Development transfer application (Ward 03) (F 502-13) .
State Rd., 4380 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 1136-12 (Ward 13)
(R 509-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th St., 1121 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 497-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4281 — objection to issuance (Ward 17) (R 483-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

Mayor’s Office
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Terminate State lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Ohio Housing Finance Agency
Lexington Village Phase I — Revised Public Notification Letter — McCormack Baron Salazar —
OHFA Application (Ward 07) (F 510-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Permits
Boda, Adam — permits — Mobile Vending (Ward 03) (O 484-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Plats
Waverly Station Subdivision Phase I — Dedication Plat of roadway South of
Bridge Ave. (Between West 57th St. and West 58th St.) — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (F 500-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Port Control Department
Air Cargo Facility — lease agreement — World Wide Flight Services — CHIA (O 362-13). . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office Space — Flight Training — Premier Flight Academy — Amend Lease Agreement No.
69361 — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 356-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — lease — USS Cod — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services for Quality Assurance and Surveying Services for Airport-Related
Projects (O 365-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Space — Flight Planning and Crew Layover Rest Area — AIRNET Systems, Inc. —
lease agreement — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 361-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

Professional Services
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

589

The City Record

34

April 10, 2013

Land Studio, Inc. — contracts — Manage The City’s Public Art Program In 2013 — City
Planning Commission (O 358-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
Port Control — Quality Assurance and Surveying Services for Airport-Related Projects
(O 365-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Public Improvements
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105 St., West. 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — approve report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Public Works
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 559.239 and Enact New Section 559.246 — Korean Cultural Garden and Russian
Cultural Garden (O 487-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorize Metroparks lease agreement for Lakefront Parks (O 504-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminate State lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Recognition
Cleveland Chinese Friendship Council (Trip To Zhongshan, Guandong, China) (R 529-13) . . . .
Council On American-Islamic Relations-Ohio (R 528-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
First Community Missionary Baptist Church — Dedication Of Ocie Williams Fellowship Hall
(R 531-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Great Lakes Science Center’s NASA Glenn Visitor Center (R 527-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liangxian, Chen (Mayor of Zhongshan, Guandong, China) (R 530-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, John G. (R 526-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

560
560
560
560

Resolution of Support
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Safety Department
Amend 431.03 — Overtaking, Passing To Left ; Driver’s Duties (O 518-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Grant — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Sidewalks Division
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings And Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. and East 151 St. — approve report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

State Of Ohio
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
Terminate State lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Streets — Name
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way —
City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

Tax Abatement
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Economic Development
Department (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Utilities Department
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous And Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal (O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572

590

April 10, 2013

The City Record

35

Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair —
Water Division (O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572

Ward 01
Glendale Ave. (Between Lee Rd. and East 169th St.) — Secondary Name of Vemel Whalen Way
City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (O 514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, John G. — Recognition (R 526-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — approve report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 03
Block, Rabbi Richard A. — Congratulations (R 524-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boda, Adam — permits — Mobile Vending (O 484-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clevelandpeople.com — Congratulations (R 522-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. — 100th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 521-13). . .
Great Lakes Science Center’s NASA Glenn Visitor Center — Recognition (R 527-13) . . . .
Professor Ave., 2393 — Economic Development transfer application — liquor permit (F
West 10th St., 1121 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 497-13). . . . . . .
West Cleveland Kiwanis Club — Congratulations (R 523-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
502-13)
.......
.......

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

560
583
560
560
560
559
559
560

Ward 04
Franklin, Sr., Almond Charles — Condolence (R 520-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 05
Dolloff Rd., 5346 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 501-13)
Franklin, Sr., Almond Charles — Condolence (R 520-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

559
560
571
571

Ward 06
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 07
First Community Missionary Baptist Church — Dedication of Ocie Williams Fellowship Hall —
Recognition (R 531-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Lexington Village Phase I — Revised Public Notification Letter — McCormack Baron Salazar —
OHFA Application (F 510-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 08
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Ward 09
Minority Men’s Health And Community Health Educational Event — agreement — Cleveland
Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center — Health Department (Ward 09 NCF) (O 482-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Ward 10
Cummings, Lonzita K. — Condolence (R 519-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Woodworth Ave. and Hayden Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 511-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567

Ward 11
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District
Planning Commission (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 910 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 507-13)
Lakeshore Blvd., 16826 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1283-11 —
liquor permit (R 508-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

591

— City
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

The City Record

36

April 10, 2013

Ward 12
Great Lakes Science Center’s NASA Glenn Visitor Center — Recognition (R 527-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 13
State Rd., 4380 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 1136-12 — liquor
permit (R 509-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 14
Cleveland Chinese Friendship Council (Trip to Zhongshan, Guandong, China) — Recognition
(R 529-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Liangxian, Chen (Mayor of Zhongshan, Guandong, China) — Recognition (R 530-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Ward 15
Fredrich, Carol M. — Congratulations (R 525-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Cleveland Kiwanis Club — Congratulations (R 523-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

560
572
571
560

Ward 16
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — approve report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
St., West 106th
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Ward 17
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
West 130th St., 4281 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 483-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

Ward 18
Council On American-Islamic Relations-Ohio — Recognition (R 528-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Great Lakes Science Center’s NASA Glenn Visitor Center — Recognition (R 527-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Gun Violence (R 515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource and Renewable Portfolio Standards (R 517-13) .
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

560
560
571
572
571

Ward 19
Supporting SEIU, Local 1 Janitors displaced by The Plain Dealer (R 516-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Amend Section 551.022 — Solid Waste Collection Fee Fixed Rate (O 513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 570

Water Division
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous And Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Pollution Control Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair
(O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572

Water Pollution Control Division
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Environmental, Health, Safety, Sustainability and Engineering Services — Cleveland Public
Power Division — Water Division (O 364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572

Zoning
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
Woodworth Ave. and Hayden Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 10) (O 511-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567

592

