The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Twenty-Second, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

29

Board of Control

29

Civil Service

34

Board of Zoning Appeals

34

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
36
Public Notice

36

Public Hearings

36

City of Cleveland Bids

36

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

37

Committee Meetings

60

Index

60

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44108
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5189

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY MAY 20, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Cleveland.

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 811-13

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

May 16, 2013
Allan Dreyer, Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Mr. Dreyer:
You are requested, without objection of Cleveland City Council, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of the May 20,
2013 Council Meeting and for all
matters requiring the Clerk’s signature from May 17, 2013 through May
24, 2013.
Your assistance is appreciated.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 20, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Mamie
Polensek, Zack Reed, Martin J.
Sweeney,
Jay
Westbrook
and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief of Communications Maureen Harper, Chief of Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Bender, Smith,
Wasik, Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka,
Southerington, Nichols, Brown, and
Ambroz.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

891

Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council
File No. 731-13-A.
From Council Member Joe Cimperman, Ward 3 — Pursuant to Rule
19 of the Rules of Cleveland City
Council,
Memo
recusing
himself
from voting on Ordinance No. 731-13.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 820-13—Johnnie B. Johnson, Jr.
Res. No. 821-13—William Daniel
Davis.
Res. No. 822-13—Clifford Sweeney,
Jr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 823-13—Nancy Cunningham Benacci.
Res. No. 824-13—Anthony J. Coyne.
Res. No. 825-13—Jack Kahl.
Res. No. 826-13—Charles M. Kyle.
Res. No. 827-13—Robert C. Maynard.

The City Record

4
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 828-13—“Caring Individuals — Stepping Out Against Breast
Cancer” — (3rd Annual).
Res. No. 829-13—Walgreens @ 6410
Broadway Avenue.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
Jones.
Res.
No.
Synenberg.

830-13—Sister
831-13—Judge

Gussie
Joan

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 805-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Commission on Minority
Health for the 2013-14 Minority
Health Program; and authorizing
the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with Mittie Davis
Jones and other agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the
grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $60,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Commission on Minority Health to conduct the 2013-14
Minority Health Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 805-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Mittie
Davis Jones and other agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the
grant as described in the file.

Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 806-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with
the Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission for legal services
necessary
to
defend
indigents
charged with violation of ordinances
of the City of Cleveland that may
result
in
incarceration,
for
the
Cleveland Municipal Court for a
period of one year, with one option
to renew for an additional one-year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Whereas, in Argersinger v. Hamlin and Scott v. Illinois, the United
States Supreme Court held that no
indigent criminal defendant may be
sentenced to a term of imprisonment
unless he or she has been afforded
the right to assistance of counsel in
their defense; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
Court, through the City of Cleveland, is obligated to provide counsel
for an indigent person charged with
violation of City ordinances with the
possibility of a sentence including
incarceration; and
Whereas, under Section 120.14 of
the Revised Code, a county public
defender commission may contract
with
any
municipal
corporation
within the County served by the
county public defender to provide
legal representation on behalf of the
municipal corporation; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
Court, the district of which encompasses Bratenahl and the City of
Cleveland,
recommends
that
the
Cuyahoga County Public Defender
Commission should provide indigent
defense; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into contract with the Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission for legal services necessary
to defend indigents charged with
violation of ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, provided the violation
may result in incarceration, for a
period of one year beginning January 1, 2013, at an estimated cost of
$1,804,656, with one option for an
additional consecutive one-year period, exercisable by the Director of
Finance, payable from Fund No. 010115-6320, Request No. RQN 0115, RL
2013-103.
Section 2. That two percent (2%) of
any payment received by the City
and/or Cleveland Municipal Court
from the financing of defense counsel
for indigent persons shall be utilized

892

May 22, 2013
by participants in a court exchange
program between Cleveland Municipal Court and the Cleveland Municipal School District.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 807-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of hauling
and disposal of water treatment
plant residuals, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which requires additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which requires
additional legislative authority, of
the necessary items of hauling and
disposal of water treatment plant
residuals,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Public Utilities, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2013-15)

May 22, 2013
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 817-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 541.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 779-06,
passed June 5, 2006, relating to
responsibility for installation and
maintenance of sewer connections.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 541.03 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 779-06, passed June 5,
2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 541.03 Responsibility for
Installation and Maintenance of
Sewer Connections
(a) That portion of a sewer connection which extends from the public
sewer to the property line shall be
installed originally by a licensed
sewer builder or by the Division of
Water Pollution Control. In either
case, installation shall be at the
expense of the property owner whose
premises are drained by the sewer
connection under rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner. The cost of any work performed by the Division of Water Pollution Control shall be under Section
543.03 of the Codified Ordinances.
(b) Once installed, the portion of a
sewer connection described in division (a) of this section shall be maintained by the Division of Water Pollution Control.
(c) That portion of a sewer connection which extends from the public
sewer to the property line shall be
installed and maintained by a
licensed sewer builder at the expense
of the property owner whose premises
are drained by the sewer connection,
and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner. On
application by the sewer builder, the
City shall furnish the information as
it possesses relative to the location
and depth of the sewer connection at
the existing or proposed curb line of
the roadway. The City shall not guarantee the correctness of the information, and shall not be liable for any
error arising from the information.
Section 2. That existing Section
541.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 779-06, passed June 5,
2006, is repealed.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 819-13.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.991 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1291-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to
civil infractions for waste collection
and disposal.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 551.991 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1291-11, passed December 5, 2011, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 551.991 Civil Infractions
(a) Civil Enforcement System
Established. The City of Cleveland
hereby adopts a civil enforcement
system for the infractions established
by this section. This civil enforcement system imposes monetary liability on the responsible parties as
defined in division (m).
In addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances, each of the following sections may be enforced
through the issuance of a ticket to the
responsible parties as defined in division (m):
(1) Section 551.04, division (d),
relating to the early set out of waste.
(2) Section 551.04, division (e),
relating to failing to remove a waste
container after collection.
(3) Section 551.111, division (a) and
division (b), relating to excessively
large quantity of waste for collection.
(4) Section 551.041, division (a),
relating to automated waste collection and recycling infractions.
Any person who violates any of the
foregoing prohibitions has committed
an infraction for which liability is
imposed by division (b) upon the
responsible parties as defined in division (m).
(b) Liability Imposed. Each owner
of a parcel at which an infraction has
occurred is liable to the City of Cleveland in the amounts established in
divisions (f) and (g).
Warning of Liability Imposed:
Prior to the issuance of a ticket as
outlined in this section, the homeowner shall receive one written warning
by the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal which shall mirror, in
sum and substance, the ticket as outlined here. The heading shall prominently identify that the notice is a
warning and no fines are associated
with it. The local Councilperson shall
also be notified upon issuance of the
warning or subsequent ticket by regular U.S. mail or inter-governmental
mail at the same time as the warning
or ticket is issued to the homeowner.

893

5
(c) Noncriminal Offense; No Conviction. The infractions established by
this section are noncriminal. The
imposition of liability upon the
responsible parties under this section
shall not be deemed a conviction for
any purpose.
(d) Other Costs and Penalties Not
Abrogated. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as altering or limiting the effects of any other section
of these Codified Ordinances, the
criminal penalties imposed by any
such other section, or the ability of a
law enforcement officer to enforce
those sections.
(e) Tickets – Service; Contents. If a
violation of division (a) is observed
by an employee of the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal or any
other City employee whose duties
include the enforcement of this section, then the Director of Public
Works shall cause the responsible
parties to be issued a ticket. The ticket shall be served by sending it via
regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to
the parcel owner(s) at the tax mailing address shown in the records of
the County Recorder.
The date of mailing of the ticket
shall be deemed to be the date of
issuance of the ticket. If the mailing
is unreturned, then it shall establish
that the respondents were given actual or constructive notice of the imposition of liability under this section.
The ticket shall identify the parcel
owner(s) as respondents. The ticket
shall state that the respondents are
responsible parties for the commission of a civil infraction under this
section.
The ticket shall inform the respondents of the procedure to file an
appeal and the time frame for filing
it. The ticket shall state that failure
to appeal the ticket or pay the costs
imposed not later than twenty (20)
days from the date of issuance of the
ticket shall constitute a waiver of the
right to contest the ticket and shall be
considered an admission. The ticket
shall further state that if the ticket is
not appealed or paid in that time
frame, then a default finding of civil
liability shall be imposed upon
respondents for the costs established
in divisions (f) and (g).
The ticket may be in any format
that includes all of the elements
required by this section.
(f) Penalties Established. The
costs imposed by this section upon the
responsible parties for the commission of an infraction contrary to division (a) shall be assessed in accordance with the following schedule:
Section
551.111, division (a)

Civil Penalty
$250.00

551.111, division (b)

$500.00

551.04, division (d)

$100.00

551.04, division (e)

$100.00

551.041, division (a)

$100.00

The costs established by this section are imposed upon the responsible
parties both as civil penalties and to
reimburse the City for a portion of the
costs incurred by it in the enforcement of infractions, and for some
infractions, the increased costs of
solid waste disposal.

The City Record

6
(g) Late Penalties. Late penalties
shall be assessed in accordance with
the following schedule:
(1) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid twenty (20)
days after the ticket is issued or twenty (20) days after the conclusion of all
appeals, an additional twenty dollars
($20.00) shall be assessed; and
(2) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid forty (40)
days after the ticket is issued or forty
(40) days after the conclusion of all
appeals, an additional forty dollars
($40.00) shall be added to the twenty
dollars ($20.00) assessed under division (g)(1) for a total additional
penalty of sixty dollars ($60.00) in
such a case.
(h) Appeals – Timing. Any respondent or other person who is potentially liable for the costs imposed by this
section may appeal the imposition of
liability to the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, which
may include the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal Court in his or her
capacity
as
Parking
Violations
Bureau Administrator or otherwise,
in the manner described in the ticket.
As used in divisions (h), (i) and (j) of
this section, “Director” means the
Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
The appeal shall be taken not later
than twenty (20) days from the date
of issuance of the ticket. Failure to
appeal the ticket or pay the costs
imposed within this time period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the ticket and shall be considered
an admission.
(i) Appeal – Process. The Director
shall establish an administrative
appeal process for persons to appeal
tickets issued under this section. The
administrative appeal process shall
allow the appellant the right to present appellant’s case in person and
may allow for evidence to be present-

ed ex-parte. The strict rules of evidence applicable to courts of law
shall not apply in any administrative
hearing or ex-parte review. The ticket
charging the offense shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the offense
identified in the ticket occurred and
that the parcel owner(s) to whom the
ticket was mailed are the responsible
parties as defined in division (m) and
are liable to the City of Cleveland for
the costs imposed by this section.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant
is liable under this section for the
costs assessed, then the Director shall
dismiss the appeal and order the
appellant to pay the costs identified
in the ticket.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant
is liable under this section for the
costs assessed but that there are reasons for the commission of the infraction that mitigate the offense, then
the Director shall dismiss the appeal
and order the appellant to pay the
costs identified in the ticket, but may
in the interest of equity reduce the
costs assessed.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that the appellant is not liable under this section for
the costs assessed, then the Director
shall dismiss the ticket and grant the
appeal.
The
local
Councilperson
may
appear
on
behalf
of
the
respondent/homeowner.
(j) Appeal of the Director’s Decision. Any person subject to an
adverse decision of the Director may
appeal that decision to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. The notice of appeal
shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the Board of Zoning Appeals
within ten (10) days of the decision of
the
Director.
The
Board
shall
approve, modify or annul the finding
from which the appeal is taken.

May 22, 2013
(k) Collection. The costs imposed
by this section may be enforced and
collected by means of a civil action or
any other means provided for in these
Codified Ordinances or the Ohio
Revised Code.
(l) Rules and Regulations. The
Director of Public Works may issue
rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of these sections, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after their publication in the City
Record.
(m) Definitions. As used in this section:
(1) “Director” means the Director of
Public Works and in the case of
appeals, the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
(2) “Owner” or “parcel owner” mean
the person(s) shown in the records of
the County Recorder as having legal
title to the parcel on which someone
has failed to adhere to division (a).
(3) “Person” includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, and association.
(RC 1.59(C))
(4)
“Responsible
party”
and
“responsible parties” has the same
meaning as “owner” or “parcel
owner”.
Section 2. That Section 551.991 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1291-11, passed December 5, 2011,
is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Service, Legislation, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 810-13.
By Council Member Keane.
An ordinanceto change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the northwest corner of Lorain Avenue and W.
147th Street to Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2435).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 147th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Marilyn Schneider by deed dated October 5, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 20011005001, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number
024-28-014;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the easterly ling of a parcel of land conveyed to Michael P. and Amy L. Herrin by deed dated April 3,
1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V98038440035, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 024-28-036;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Chu
Duan Zhang by deed dated November 5, 2004 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200411051215, said parcel also being
known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 024-28-037;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Lorain Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 147th Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2435 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland and shall be on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed

894

May 22, 2013

The City Record

7

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 808-13.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Brownell Court S.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Brownell Court S.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of Brownell Court S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio;
Being all that portion of Brownell
Court S.E.(20.00 feet wide) extending
Easterly from the West right of way
of East 21st Street (width varies) to
that portion of Brownell Court

S.E.(20.00 feet wide)vacated by the
Council of the City of Cleveland by
ordinance number 1365-69 passed
June 30, 1969.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 788-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Cleveland
Tech Holding LLC, or its designee,

895

to provide for a ten-year, sixty percent tax abatement for certain real
property improvements located at
1425-1625 Rockwell Avenue in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated May 3,
2013, the City provided the Cleveland Metropolitan School District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by Section
5709.83 of the Revised Code. That
notice was provided to the CMSD not
later than fourteen days prior to
adoption of this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area, which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains
the
characteristics
described in division (A) of Section
5709.61 of the Revised Code and certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, Cleveland Tech Holding,
LLC, or its designee (the “Enterprise”) has proposed to purchase
and rehabilitate the building locat-

8
ed at 1425-1625 Rockwell Avenue in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone
(PPs 102-06-014, 102-06-022, 102-07-072,
and 102-07-080) to be used by a third
party to operate a data center; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be
at a competitive disadvantage operating at this location if taxes on certain real property improvements
were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide
for a ten-year, sixty percent (60%)
tax abatement for certain real property improvements; the abatement shall
be subject to annual review of the
Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall be in accordance
with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 788-13-A. These
terms shall not be amended, nor shall
the tax abatement be assignable or
transferable to any entity, without
the prior legislative authorization by
Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code and the funds are appropriated
for the purposes listed in Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That any contract authorized by this legislation must require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts. The
identification process shall place special emphasis on the hard to employ,
including people who are disabled
and people who have been convicted
of or who have pled guilty to a criminal offense which is unrelated to the
duties of the job opportunity.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

The City Record
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 789-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire and re-convey properties presently owned by
Geis Companies, or its designee,
located at 900-916 Euclid Avenue,
1010 Euclid Avenue, and 2017 East
9th Street for the purpose of entering into the chain-of-title prior to
the
adoption
of
tax
increment
financing
legislation
authorized
under Section 5709.41 of the Revised
Code; and authorizing an agreement
with
Geis
Companies,
or
its
designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire from and reconvey to, Geis
Companies, or its designee, for a
price of one dollar and other valuable considerations determined as
fair market value, the following
property for the purpose of entering
into the chain-of-title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing
legislation authorized under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code and
more fully described as follows:
Parcel No. 1: Fee Simple
Rotunda Parcel — PPN: 101-36-052
(900-916 Euclid Avenue)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Two Acre Lot No. 154, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue, (99 feet wide), at its
intersection with the Northeasterly
line of East 9th Street, (formerly Erie
Street, 99 feet wide);
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 140.19 feet to
the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to Frank A. Arter by deed dated
March 25, 1895 and recorded in Volume 605, Page 155 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Southerly along the Easterly line of land so conveyed to Frank
A. Arter, said line being at a right
angle to the Southerly line of Euclid
Avenue, 73.32 feet to a point;
thence Southwesterly in a direct
line, 98.92 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of East 9th Street, said
point being distant 123.87 feet Southeasterly, measured along the Northeasterly line of East 9th Street, from
its intersection with the Southerly
line of Euclid Avenue;

896

May 22, 2013
thence Northwesterly along the
Northeasterly line of East 9th Street,
123.87 feet to the place of beginning.
Parcel No. 2: Fee Simple
Tower Parcel — PPN: 101-36-014
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 154, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the northeasterly line
of East 9th Street, formerly Erie
Street, at the most southerly corner of
land conveyed to The Cleveland Trust
Company by deed dated December 14,
1976 and recorded in Volume 14422,
Page 883 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
thence northeasterly along the
southeasterly line of land so conveyed, 98.92 feet to a point on the
westerly line of land conveyed to
National Office Building Company by
deed dated September 9, 1974 and
recorded in Volume 13672, Page 403 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
thence southeasterly along the
southwesterly line of land so conveyed, about 40.01 feet to an angle
therein;
thence continuing southeasterly
along said southwesterly line, 38.92
feet to the northwesterly line of land
conveyed to The Cleveland Trust
Company by deed dated December 30,
1974 and recorded in Volume 13698,
Page 65 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence southwesterly along the
northwesterly line of land so conveyed, 82.75 feet to the northeasterly
line of East 9th Street;
thence northwesterly along the
northeasterly line of East 9th Street,
about 74.80 feet to the place of beginning.
Parcel No. 3: Fee Simple
Tower Parcel — PPN: 101-36-027
(2017 East 9th Street)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Two Acre Lot No. 154, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the northeasterly line
of East 9th Street, (formerly Erie
Street, 99 feet wide), at its intersection with the northwesterly line of
Barn Court, S.E., (16-1/2) feet wide);
thence northwesterly along the
northeasterly line of East 9th Street,
57 feet 9 inches to the southeasterly
line of land conveyed to The Cleveland Trust Company by deed dated
July 20, 1904 and recorded in Volume
936, Page 396 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
thence northeasterly along the
southeasterly line of land so conveyed, and along the northeasterly
prolongation thereof, about 132 feet to
the northeasterly line of said Original
Lot No. 154;
thence southeasterly along the
northeasterly line of said Original Lot
No. 154, 57 feet 9 inches to the northwesterly line of Barn Court, S.E.;
thence southwesterly along the
northwesterly line of Barn Court, S.E.,
about 132 feet to the place of beginning.
Parcel No. 4: Fee Simple
1010 Building — PPN: 101-36-015
(1010 Euclid Avenue)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio

The City Record

May 22, 2013
and known as being part of Original
Two Acre Lots Nos. 154 and 155, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 415.86 feet
westerly from the westerly line of
East 12th Street, (formerly Short
Alley), measured on said southerly
line, said place of beginning is also
140.19 feet easterly from the southeast corner of Euclid Avenue and
East 9th Street (formerly Erie
Street);
thence southerly at right angles
with Euclid Avenue, 113.33 feet to a
point 82.75 feet easterly from East 9th
Street;
thence southerly parallel with East
9th Street, 38.92 feet; thence East parallel with Barn Court, S.E., (formerly
Barn Alley) 50 feet;
thence southerly parallel with East
9th Street, 57.75 feet to the northerly
line of Barn Court, S.E.;
thence easterly on said northerly
line, 42.67 feet to a point;

thence northerly, deflecting 4° 07’
east of a line at right angles with
Barn Court, S.E., at the last named
point, 109.90 feet;
thence northerly at right angles
with Euclid Avenue, 62.04 feet to the
southerly line of Euclid Avenue;
thence westerly on said southerly
line, 86.43 feet to the place of beginning.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire and to convey the properties
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition and sale of the properties.
Section 3. That this Council finds
that the conveyances constitute a
public purpose.
Section 4. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and exe-

9
cuted by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Geis
Companies, or its designee, which
shall include the terms and conditions
of the transaction authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 790-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more standard and requirement contracts for the
purchase, lease, or lease with option to purchase, of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their
intended purposes, including vehicle rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as needed, for the various divisions
of City government, for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one or more written standard purchase and
written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the period of requirements of one year, for the necessary items required for the purchase, lease, or lease with option to
purchase, various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other
aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including labor and
materials necessary for vehicle rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as needed, in the estimated sum of
$4,508,000, to be purchased or procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the
various divisions of City government, as described below:
Enterprise Vehicle List
Item
Number

Item Description
Division: Water
Dept Code: 2002
Van - Cargo
Cab/Chassis w/ large USV
Air Compressor
Pickup Truck-Full Size
Mid-Size Automobile
SUV - Compact
Cab/Chassis w/Medium USV
Cab/Chassis w/Tandem Dump
Total Trucks
Division: WPC
Dept. Code: 2003
Cab Chassis w/Crane
Cab Chassis w/Dump Body
Mini Excavator
4X4 SUV
Total
Division: CPP
Dept. Code: 2004
Cab Chassis w/60 Ft. Bucket
Cab Chassis w/60 Ft. Tree Service Bucket
Cab Chassis w/40ft Bucket
Cable Cart
Chipper
Total

897

Ext.
Est. Cost

User

Quantity

Est. Cost

CWD
CWD
CWD
CWD
CWD
CWD
CWD
CWD

6
3
21
12
1
5
3
3
54

30,000
180,500
25,000
29,000
28,000
28,100
60,000
200,000

$180,000.00
$541,500.00
$525,000.00
$348,000.00
$28,000.00
$140,500.00
$180,000.00
$600,000.00
$2,543,000.00

WPC
WPC
WPC
WPC

1
1
1
2
5

195,000
90,000
30,000
35,000

$195,000
90,000
30,000
70,000
$385,000

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

3
1
2
1
1
8

285,000
200,000
150,000
175,000
50,000

$855,000
$200,000
300,000
175,000
50,000
$1,580,000

10

The City Record

May 22, 2013

Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001, and
58 SF 001, RQN 7015, RL 2013-28.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public Works may sign all
documents that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

Ord. No. 791-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing
or otherwise improving recreation
facilities, including Sterling Recreation Center, and other recreation
buildings and other similar structures, on City-owned and City-leased
including
site
park
property,
improvements and appurtenances;
authorizing the Director of Public
Works to enter into one or more contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvements, including professional services and contract or contracts
for the making of the improvement
to parks and to proceed with the
improvement to recreation facilities
not otherwise improved by the direct
employment of the necessary labor,
for the Department of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing
or otherwise improving recreation
facilities, including Sterling Recreation Center, and other recreation
buildings and other similar structures, on City-owned and City-leased
park property, including all site
improvements
and
appurtenances
necessary and incidental, for the
Department of Public Works, by one
or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 538-13, passed April
15, 2013, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross
price. On request of the director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including

profit and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of constructing, rehabilitating, renovating, replacing or otherwise improving parks and playgrounds on City-owned and Cityleased park property, including all
site improvements and appurtenances
necessary and incidental, for the
Department of Public Works, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 4. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 538-13, passed April
15, 2013, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit
basis.
Section 5. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 538-13, passed April
15, 2013, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to make one or more
written contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the
items comprising the necessary supplies and materials for the improvements, including the rental of necessary equipment to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Works.
Section 6. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells bonds authorized by
Ordinance No. 538-13, passed April 15,
2013, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to employ by contract one
or more architects, landscape architects and engineers, or one or more
firms of architects, landscape architects and engineers, necessary to
implement the public improvements
authorized in this ordinance. The
selection of the consultants for the
services shall be made by the Board of
Control on the nomination of the
Director of Public Works from a list
of qualified consultants available for
the employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Works
for the purpose of compiling the list.
The compensation to be paid for the

898

services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Public Works and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 538-13, passed April
15, 2013, under Section 167 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the public improvement of constructing, rehabilitating,
renovating, replacing or otherwise
improving recreation facilities, buildings, and other similar structures,
and parks and playgrounds, on Cityowned and City-leased park property
including all site improvements and
appurtenances necessary and incidental, which are not covered by the contract or contracts authorized by Sections 2 and 4 of this ordinance by the
direct employment of the necessary
labor, and the purchase or rental of
the necessary supplies and materials
for the making of the improvement,
which supplies and materials are not
covered by the contract or contracts
authorized by Section 5 of this ordinance, with a separate accounting as
to each improvement made.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Works may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the cost of any
expenditure authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund or
funds which are credited the proceeds
of the sale of bonds authorized by
Ordinance No. 538-13, passed April 15,
2013, if the City sells such bonds and
Fund Nos. 20 SF 377, 20 SF 382, 20 SF
392, 20 SF 501, 20 SF 504, 20 SF 508, 20
SF 516, 20 SF 523, 20 SF 535, 20 SF 538,
20 SF 544, 20 SF 545, 10 SF 039, and any
other funds appropriated for this purpose with the approval of the Director
of Finance.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

May 22, 2013
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 792-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing
or otherwise improving public facilities, buildings, and other similar
structures, including site improvements and appurtenances; authorizing the Directors of Public Works
and Capital Projects to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the improvements, including
professional services and contract or
contracts for the making of the
improvement to public facilities not
otherwise improved by the direct
employment of the necessary labor,
for the Department of Public Works
and the Office of Capital Projects.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing
or otherwise improving public facilities, buildings, and other similar
structures,
including
all
site
improvements
and
appurtenances
necessary and incidental, for the
Department of Public Works and
the Office of Capital Projects, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 537-13, passed April
15, 2013, the Directors of Public
Works and Capital Projects are
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts, for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement, provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract for
a gross price. On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 537-13, passed April
15, 2013, the Directors of Public
Works and Capital Projects are
authorized to make one or more written contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the items
comprising the necessary supplies
and materials for the improvement,
including the rental of necessary

The City Record
equipment to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Public Works and the Office
of Capital Projects.
Section 4. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells bonds authorized by
Ordinance No. 537-13, passed April 15,
2013, the Directors of Public Works
and Capital Projects are authorized to
employ by contract one or more architects, landscape architects and engineers, or one or more firms of architects, landscape architects and engineers, necessary to implement the
public improvements authorized in
this ordinance. The selection of the
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Directors of Public
Works and Capital Projects from a
list of qualified consultants available
for the employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Directors of Public Works
and Capital Projects for the purpose
of compiling the list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Directors of Public
Works and Capital Projects and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That, provided the City of
Cleveland sells the general obligation
bonds authorized by Ordinance No.
537-13, passed April 15, 2013, under
Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is determined to make
the public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating,
renovating,
replacing or otherwise improving
public facilities, buildings, and other
similar structures, including all site
improvements and appurtenances
necessary and incidental, which are
not covered by the contract or contracts authorized by Sections 2 and 4
of this ordinance by the direct
employment of the necessary labor,
and the purchase or rental of the necessary supplies and materials for the
making of the improvement, which
supplies and materials are not covered by the contract or contacts authorized by Section 5 of this ordinance,
with a separate accounting as to each
improvement made.
Section 6. That the Directors of Public Works and Capital Projects are
authorized to apply and pay for permits, licenses, or other authorizations
required by any regulatory agency or
public authority to permit performance of the work authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Directors of Public Works and Capital Projects may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the cost of any
expenditure authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 537-13, passed April
15, 2013, if the City sells such bonds,
and Fund Nos. 20 SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20
SF 503, 20 SF 509, 20 SF 517, 20 SF 524,
20 SF 532, 20 SF 533, 20 SF 539, 20 SF
545, and any other funds appropriated

899

11
for this purpose with the approval of
the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 793-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Ordinance No. 1715-11, passed January 9, 2012, Ordinance No. 792-12,
passed July 11, 2012, and Ordinance
No. 1694-12, passed February 11,
2013, relating to contracts for the
rental of large capacity trucks, and
the purchase of grinding of pavement and asphalt concrete to add
bond funds as an additional funding
source.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1715-11, passed January 9,
2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the bond proceeds authorized by
Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22,
2013, if the City sells such bonds and
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546 and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 4006, RL
2011-59)
Section 2. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1715-11, passed January
9, 2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 792-12, passed July 11, 2012,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the bond proceeds authorized by
Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22,
2013, if the City sells such bonds, and
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546 and shall also be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of any purchase
under the contract, each of which purchases shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery order issued
against the contract or contracts and
certified by the Director of Finance.
(RQN 7016, RL 2012-19)

The City Record

12
Section 4. That existing Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 792-12, passed July 11,
2012, is repealed.
Section 5. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1694-12, passed February 11,
2013, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the bond proceeds authorized by
Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22,
2013, if the City sells such bonds and
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546 and shall be charged against the

May 22, 2013

proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 7016, RL
2012-55)
Section 6. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1694-12, passed February 11, 2013, is repealed.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 794-13.
By Council Members Keane and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Three Million Eight Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Seven Hundred Three ($3,855,703) of Enterprise Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Three Million Eight Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Seven Hundred Three Dollars ($3,855,703) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That there is appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official Certificate of
Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:
ENTERPRISE FUND

$ 3,855,703
———————
3,855,703

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Division of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
II.
Other Expenses

$ 3,855,703
$ 3,855,703

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUND
TOTAL ALL FUND

———————
$ 3,855,703
———————
$ 3,855,703
———————
$ 3,855,703

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 796-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Finance and
Public Utilities to enter into one or
more contracts with FirstEnergy
Solutions Corp. for aggregation services and power supply for residential and small commercial customers
for a period of 24 months, beginning
July 2013.
Whereas, Ohio state law allows a
municipality to create an electric
aggregation program through which
the municipality negotiates a bulk
discount from electric generation
suppliers to provide electricity to
the municipality’s residential and
small commercial customers; and
Whereas, Section 129.331 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Director of
Public Utilities to enter into contracts with electric aggregation suppliers with the approval of City
Council; and

Whereas, the City solicited proposals from aggregation service
providers to create and manage a 24month electric aggregation program;
and
Whereas, FirstEnergy Solutions
Corp. submitted a proposal on April
11, 2013, amended by their letter of
May 9, 2013, to create and manage
an electric aggregation program
that includes discounted rates for
customers and various energy efficiency and sustainability services;
and
Whereas, on the basis of the proposals submitted, the City has determined that the proposal submitted
by FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. best
suits the needs of Cleveland’s residents and small businesses; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

900

Section 1. That the Directors of
Finance and Public Utilities are
authorized to enter into a contract
beginning July 2013, with FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. to create and
manage an electric aggregation program on the basis of its proposal
dated April 11, 2013, amended by
their letter of May 9, 2013.
Section 2. That the contract or contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall contain such terms and conditions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to benefit and protect the
City and the customers of the electric
aggregation program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

May 22, 2013
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 797-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Success Street as a secondary name to East 49th Street
between
St.
Clair
and
Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Success Street shall
be added as a secondary name to
East 49th Street between St. Clair
and Superior Avenue.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 798-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Dream Drive as a secondary name to East 51st Street
between
St.
Clair
and
Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Dream Drive shall be
added as a secondary name to East
51st Street between St. Clair and
Superior Avenue.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 799-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating St. Clair Avenue between
East 49th Street to East 51st Street
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Julius Brenner Way”.

The City Record
Whereas,
Julius
A.
Brenner,
founder of Ohio Technical College
(OTC), was born on January 4, 1919,
graduated in 1937 from Glenville
High School, and later attended
Fenn College in Cleveland, Ohio. He
joined the United States Army in
1941, attained the rank of Staff
Sergeant and was honorably discharged in 1945; and
Whereas, after establishing himself as a restaurant entrepreneur
and working in higher education, in
1969 he created and founded the
Ohio Diesel Mechanics School, now
known as OTC, located at 1374 East
51st Street; and
Whereas, OTC is an accredited,
private, proprietary, post-secondary
technical college and is dedicated to
providing
premier
training
in
preparing students for challenging
and rewarding careers in modern
technologies; and
Whereas, during his distinguished
career as Director of OTC, Mr. Brenner established a unique perspective
on vocational education and career
advancement by focusing on students’ strong work ethic, outstanding mechanical training, and a
“Real Training for The Real World”
philosophy; and
Whereas, Mr. Brenner has given
unsparingly of his time, energy,
knowledge and leadership to OTC,
donating his resources, encouraging
staff, and encouraging student participation in our cultural and community achievements; his vision for
OTC and skills have earned the
respect of all who have worked with
him, the thousands of students and
alumni, and his family and friends;
and
Whereas, the citizens of Glenville
want to honor Mr. Brenner as a
token of their appreciation by designating St. Clair Avenue between
East 49th Street to East 51st Street
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Julius Brenner Way”;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That St. Clair Avenue
between East 49th Street to East
51st Street is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Julius Brenner Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 800-13.
By Council Members J. Johnson and
Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance designating Kempton Avenue between
East 105th Street and Herrick Road
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Michael R. White Way”.

901

13
Whereas, Michael R. White grew
up on Kempton Avenue in Cleveland’s
Glenville
neighborhood,
attended Cleveland Public Schools
and is a graduate of Glenville High
School; and
Whereas, he began his political
career early on during his college
years at Ohio State University when
he protested against the discriminatory policies of the Columbus public
bus system and was subsequently
arrested; White then ran the following year for Student Union President and won, becoming the college’s
first
black
student
body
leader; and
Whereas, after earning a Bachelor
of Arts degree in 1973 and a Master
of Public Administration degree in
1974, White returned home to Cleveland; and
Whereas, he served on Cleveland
City Council as an administrative
assistant from 1976 to 1977, and ran
for the 24th Ward in Cleveland City
Council in 1977, defeating an incumbent Council Member, Mildred Madison; and
Whereas,
White
remained
on
Kempton Avenue living across the
street from his parents as he developed a reputation as being an
aggressive, talented and hardworking Councilman, and in 1981, was
elected Councilman for the new
Ward 8 after the reduction of the
city council from 33 to 21 members
and after defeating another council
incumbent, Andrew Wright; White
served as City Councilman from the
Glenville area from 1978 to 1984; and
Whereas, in 1984, White was
appointed, and later elected, as State
Senator for the 21st Senate District
in the Ohio State Senate; he also
served as a Democratic assistant
minority whip, and served in the
Ohio Senate until 1990; and
Whereas, in 1989, White entered
the race for Mayor of Cleveland,
Ohio and won, becoming the 55th
Mayor of Cleveland and the longest
serving in the history of Cleveland,
encompassing three four-year terms
(1990-2001); and
Whereas, his desire to balance
downtown development initiatives
with an equal concern for the needs
of the urban poor, and especially the
youth marked Mayor White’s time in
office; and
Whereas, White is credited with
continuing the work of his predecessor George Voinovich in revitalizing the city; some of his accomplishments include passing legislation making banks dispel lending
policies that were restrictive to
minorities, providing leadership for
retaining a Cleveland Browns team
in the NFL (after then-Browns team
owner Art Modell moved to Baltimore with all former Browns players and personnel to form the Baltimore Ravens), as well as building
a new stadium for the Cleveland
Browns, and construction of the
Gateway Sports and Entertainment
complex; and
Whereas, White is also credited
with saving Continental Airlines
Cleveland Hub, and in 1997, Continental Airlines opened a new Gate
D at Hopkins Airport; and
Whereas, under Mayor White’s
tenure, Cleveland also became a
tourist spot with the openings of the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1995
and the Great Lakes Science Center
in 1996; and

14
Whereas, White announced at an
informal appearance at Miles Standish Elementary School (later renamed to Michael R. White school)
on April 23, 2001 that he would not
seek a fourth term; and
Whereas, when White’s successor,
Jane L. Campbell assumed office in
January 2002, the former mayor
retired to an alpaca farm near Newcomerstown, Ohio where he continues to work with Cleveland nonprofit corporations involved in leadership development and neighborhood development, and also later
expanded his businesses to include
the Yellow Butterfly Winery and a
bed and breakfast facility; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Kempton Avenue
between East 105th Street and Herrick Road is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Michael R. White Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 801-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to extend
the moratorium on the review and
issuance of zoning permits, certificates
of
occupancy,
and
other
license or permit applications for
internet sweepstakes operations in
the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1367-10, passed October 18, 2010, this
Council declared a moratorium on
the review and issuance of zoning
permits, certificates of occupancy,
and other license or permit applications for internet sweepstakes operations in the City of Cleveland, until
April 18, 2011; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 50811, passed April 11, 2011, this Council
extended
the
moratorium
declared by Ordinance No. 1367-10
until October 24, 2011; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1431-11, passed October 24, 2011, this
Council extended the moratorium
declared by Ordinance No. 1367-10
until April 24, 2012; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 53812, passed April 16, 2012, this Council
extended
the
moratorium
declared by Ordinance No. 1367-10
until October 24, 2012; and
Whereas, under Ordinance 1488-12,
passed October 15, 2012, this Council
extended the moratorium declared
by Ordinance No. 1367-10 until June
30, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council has been
researching
internet
sweepstakes
operations in order to make a deter-

The City Record
mination regarding their classification under the City’s zoning code,
and possible regulations associated
with their activities; and
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly passed Am. Sub. H.B. No. 386,
effective June 11, 2012, that imposed
a moratorium on all new sweepstakes operations while statewide
legislation regulating such establishments is being considered; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health, safety, or
welfare in that an extension of the
moratorium on such internet sweepstakes operations, consistent with
the State imposed moratorium is
needed while statewide legislation
is being considered, and to allow
this Council time to consider all relevant factors in order to make a
determination as to what action is
appropriate for the City; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the moratorium on
the review and issuance of zoning
permits, certificates of occupancy,
and other license or permit applications for internet sweepstakes operations in the City of Cleveland
declared under Ordinance No. 136710 passed October 18, 2010, as
amended by Ordinance No. 508-11,
passed April 11, 2011, Ordinance No.
1431-11, passed October 24, 2011, as
amended by Ordinance No. 538-12,
passed April 16, 2012, and Ordinance
1488-12, passed October 15, 2012, is
hereby extended until December 30,
2013, or until the effective date of
an ordinance or law regulating
internet
sweepstakes
operations,
whichever date occurs first.
Section 2. That, as used in this ordinance, “internet sweepstakes operations” shall have the same meaning as
in Ordinance No. 1367-10.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 802-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Health to enter into an
agreement with University Hospitals of Cleveland for the Lung Cancer Screening and Prevention Program through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is
authorized to enter into an agreement with University Hospitals of

902

May 22, 2013
Cleveland for the Lung Cancer
Screening and Prevention Program
for the public purpose of providing
health screenings for the prevention
of lung cancer for city of Cleveland
residents through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 803-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into
an
agreement
with
Youth
Opportunities
Unlimited
for
the
Youth
Summer
Jobs
Program
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective May 13, 2013
with for Youth Opportunities Unlimited for the Youth Summer Jobs Program for the public purpose of providing summer jobs for youth residing in the city of Cleveland through
the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $21,846 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record

May 22, 2013
Ord. No. 804-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to stretch banners West 65th Street, south of
Detroit Avenue for the period from
June 7, 2013 to July 15, 2013 inclusive,
publicizing
Gordon
Square
Walk & Run on July 13th, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization to install, maintain and remove
banners on West 65th Street, south
of Detroit Avenue for the period
from June 7, 2013 to July 15, 2013,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 816-13.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance changing
the name of the KaBoom! Playground located on East 73rd Street
between Central Avenue and Cedar
Avenue to the “Mattie and Edward
Gurewitz Playground.”
Whereas,
the
KaBoom!
Playground is located on East 73rd
Street between Central Avenue and
Cedar Avenue on former vacant City
lots; and
Whereas, the citizens of the Central neighborhood want to honor
Mattie and Edward Gurewitz as the
individuals responsible for bringing
this playground to the neighborhood
by renaming the KaBoom! Playground as the “Mattie and Edward
Gurewitz Playground.”
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,

15

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of the
KaBoom! Playground located on
East 73rd Street between Central
Avenue
and
Cedar
Avenue
be
changed to the “Mattie and Edward
Gurewitz Playground.”
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

5.4

Ord. No. 818-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Rock ‘n’ Roll Half
Marathon on Sunday, October 6, 2013,
sponsored by Rock ‘n Roll Marathon
Series/Competitor Group.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Rock ‘n’ Roll Half
Marathon on Sunday, October 6, 2013,
sponsored by Rock ‘n Roll Marathon
Series/Competitor Group.

9.0

5.5
5.7
5.8
6.8
6.9
7.0
7.2
7.4
7.5
7.5
8.1
8.6
8.7

9.0
9.1
9.1
9.3
10.1
10.3
10.4
10.8
10.9
11.1
11.2
11.2

0.0
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.8
1.4
1.9
2.3
2.4
2.4
2.5
3.1
3.3
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.8
4.0
4.3

Start – On Erieside Avenue heading West (Whole Road)
Right
(North)
on
Erieside
Avenue (Whole Road)
Left (West) on Erieside Avenue
(Whole Road)
Left (South) on W. 3rd Street
(Whole Road)
Left (East) on W. Lakeside
Avenue (Whole Road)
Right (South) on E. 12th Street
(Whole Road)
Right (West) on Euclid Avenue
(Westbound Lanes)
Right (North) on E. Roadway
(Whole Road)
Right
(East)
on
Rockwell
Avenue (Whole Road)
Left (North) on Mall Drive
(Whole Road)
Left (West) on St. Clair Avenue
(Whole Road)
Left (South) on Robert Jr. Lockwood Drive (Whole Road)
Right (West) on Columbus Road
(Whole Road)
Right (North) on West Street
(Whole Road)
Left (West) on Merwin Avenue
(Whole Road)
Right (North) on Center Street
(Whole Road)
Left
(Southwest)
on
Main
Avenue (Whole Road)
Left (North) on W. 25th Street
(Whole Road)
Right (West) on Detroit Avenue
(Whole Road)

903

11.7
11.9
12.6
12.8
13.0

13.1

Left (South) on W. 65th Street
(Whole Road)
Left (East) on Clinton Avenue
(Whole Road)
Right (South) on W. 58th Street
(Whole Road)
Left (East) on Franklin Avenue
(Whole Road)
Right (South) on Fulton Road
(Whole road)
Left (South) W. 30th Street
(Whole Road)
Left (East) on Bridge Avenue
(Whole Road)
Right (South) on W. 25th Street
(Whole Road)
Left (East) on Lorain Avenue
(Whole Road)
Right
(South)
on
Gehring
Avenue (Whole Road)
Left (East) on Abby Avenue
(Eastbound lanes only)
Right (South) on W. 11th Street
(Whole Road)
Right (West) on Starkweather
Avenue (Whole Road)
Left (South) on W. 14th Street
(Northbound Lanes)
Left (West) on Mentor Avenue
(Whole Road)
Right (South) on W. 12th Street
(Whole Road)
Left (West) on Castle Avenue
(Whole Road)
Left (North) on W. 11th Street
(Whole Road)
Right (East) on Park access
road (Whole Road)
Right (North) on W. 7th Street
(Whole Road)
Left (West) on Starkweather
Avenue (Whole Road)
Right (Northwest) on Professor
Avenue (Whole Road)
Right (Northeast) on Literary
Road (Whole road)
Left (West) on W. 7th Street
(Whole road)
Left (West) on University Road
(Whole road)
Left (South) on W. 11th Street
(Whole road)
Right (West) on Abbey Avenue
(Westbound lanes only)
Right (North) on W. 20th Street
(Whole road)
Right (Northeast) on Carnegie
Avenue (Whole road)
Left (Northwest) on Ontario
Street (Southbound lanes only)
Left (West) on Huron Road
(Whole road)
Right (Northeast) on Superior
Avenue (Northeast-bound lanes
only)
FINISH – Superior Avenue at W.
3rd Street

provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may
be closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record

16
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 795-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution to adopt
and declare a Tax Budget for the
City of Cleveland for the year 2014
and submit it to the County Budget
Commission as required by State
Law, Chapter 5705 of the Revised
Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council, under
the provisions of Chapter 5705 of the
Revised Code, after public hearings
as required by law, does adopt the
statements of the year 2014 requirements for the several funds of the
City of Cleveland as being the budget
required by state law to be submitted
to the County Budget Commission,
which requirements are contained in
File No. 795-13-A.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to certify a copy of the resolution to the County Auditor of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 809-13.
By Council Members Conwell,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Rumar Drive N.E
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Rumar Drive N.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being all that portion of Rumar
Drive N.E. (20.00 feet wide) extending
Easterly and Northerly from the East
right of way of East 110th Street
(70.00 feet wide) to its intersection

with the Easterly prolongation of the
North line of Sublot 23 in the Keiper
Realty Company’s Subdivision, as
shown in volume 62, page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 812-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Congress to pass
H.R. 1699 and S. 809, the Genetically Engineered Food Right-to-Know
Act to mandate labeling of all
genetically engineered food products.
Whereas, on April 24, 2013, the
Genetically Engineered Food Rightto-Know Act was introduced in the
United States Congress as H.R. 1699
and S. 809 that requires labeling of
all genetically engineered food products; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
recognizes that consumers want the
right to know accurate and thorough information about the food
they feed their families; and
Whereas, the potential long-term
risks to public health and the environment
from
genetically
engineered foods are unknown; and
Whereas, safety studies on genetically engineered foods are limited
because
biotechnology
companies
prohibit cultivation for research purposes in their seed licensing agreements; and
Whereas, some independent, peerreviewed research that has been
on
genetically
engineered
done
crops has revealed problems with
liver and kidney functions in rats,
deformities and neurological problems in vertebrates and lower nutrition content in Roundup Ready
crops; and
Whereas, it is the responsibility of
the United States Department of
Agriculture to ensure that genetically engineered crops are safe to
grow, the Environmental Protection
Agency to ensure that genetically
engineered products will not harm
the environment and the Food and
Drug Administration to ensure that
genetically engineered food is safe
to eat; and
Whereas, the patchwork of federal agencies that regulates genetically engineered crops and animals
in the United States has failed to
adequately
oversee
and
monitor
genetically engineered products; and
Whereas, farmers who produce
or
non-genetically
engiorganic
neered crops run the risk of crop
contamination from nearby genetically engineered crops; and
Whereas, farmers who unintentionally
grow
genetically
engineered-patented seeds or who har-

904

May 22, 2013
vest crops that are contaminated
with genetically engineered traits
could lose marketing options and
face costly lawsuits; and
Whereas, a 2008 CBS/New York
Times poll found that 87 percent of
U.S. consumers wanted all genetically ingredients to be labeled;
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the United States Congress to pass
H.R. 1699 and S. 809, the Genetically
Engineered Food Right-to-Know Act
to mandate labeling of all genetically
engineered food products.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Bob Perciasepe, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Secretary of Agriculture
Tom Vilsack, United States Department of Agriculture, Margaret Hamberg M.D., Commissioner of the Food
and Drug Administration, Senators
Sherrod Brown and Robert Portman,
United States Senate, Representative
Marcia Fudge, United States House of
Representatives, and Food & Water
Watch.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 813-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3868 East 71st Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Q Repairs, LLC,
DBA Pizzeria Uno, 3868 East 71st
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit
Number 7128770; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

May 22, 2013
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Q Repairs, LLC,
DBA Pizzeria Uno, 3868 East 71st
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit
Number 7128770, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 814-13.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3551-55 East 93rd Street
and patio and repealing Resolution
No. 1028-12, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to V S P
Lounge, DBA V S P Lounge, 3551-55
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 9181396 by
Resolution No. 1028-12, adopted by
the Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to V S P Lounge, DBA
V S P Lounge, 3551-55 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 9181396, be and the same is

The City Record
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1028-12, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 815-13.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at
3934 West 117th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1131-12, objecting
to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit to Bellaire Gas USA,
LLC, DBA Gas USA, 3934 West 117th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 0597591 by Resolution No. 1131-12, adopted by the
Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor
Permit to Bellaire Gas USA, LLC,
DBA Gas USA, 3934 West 117th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 0597591, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1131-12, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 434-13.
By Council Members Pruitt, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell a portion of City-

905

17
owned property no longer needed for
public use and located at 18670 Pearl
Road in the City of Strongsville,
including disturbed site improvements, to the City of Strongsville; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to execute a deed of easement granting certain temporary
ingress, egress, and construction
rights in property no longer needed
for public use and located at 18670
Pearl Road to the City of Strongsville
which are necessary for the City of
Strongsville’s Pearl Road widening
and improvement project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Utilities,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 435-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 241.37 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1657-11,
passed November 28, 2011, to decrease
the distance requirement between a
mobile food shop operating on a public street or private property from
another mobile food shop.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Legislation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 487-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland, Mitchell and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 559.239 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1062-06,
passed December 11, 2006 relating to
the Korean Cultural Garden; and to
supplement the codified ordinances
by enacting new Section 559.246, relating to the Russian Cultural Garden.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
City Planning, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 505-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Groh Mansion as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 506-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Stockbridge Apartment Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.

18
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 518-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Zone, Cimperman and Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 431.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 672-12,
passed June 4, 2012, relating to the
safe distance requirement for the
operator of a bus while overtaking a
bicycle.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Public Works, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Public Safety, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
431.03(d), strike lines 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 in
their entirety and insert: “overtaken
bicycle. The same requirements shall
apply to the operator of a commercial
motor vehicle, commercial truck, commercial unit, or bus, except that the
safe distance shall not be less than
six (6) feet. However, in the case of a
bus operated by a transit authority
that has implemented a training program that promotes safe bus operation while overtaking a bicycle, that
safe distance shall be not less than
three (3) feet.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 597-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 193.02 and 193.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 252A-83, passed June 15, 1983, relating to
transient occupancy tax definitions
and purpose, rate and application of
tax; and to repeal Section 193.031, as
amended by Ordinance No. 682-09,
passed May 18, 2009, relating to
expansion of levy and additional purpose of tax.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
193.02, at “(d) “Vendor” means”,
strike “(d)” and insert “(e)”.
2. In Section 3, line 3, strike
“June” and insert “July”.
3. In Section 1, at amended Section
193.02, strike division (c) in its
entirety and insert:
“(c) “Transaction” means the total
amount of consideration, including
money or any other value, paid, or
to be paid, or given by, or on behalf
of, a transient guest to a hotel in
exchange for lodging.”.
4. In Section 1, at amended Section
193.03, strike division (c)(2) in its
entirety and insert:
“(2) a person maintaining occupancy for a period of thirty (30) or
more consecutive days; provided,
however, that except in the case of
employees of the same employer, no
occupancy may be used in combination with the occupancy of another,

The City Record
regardless of the source of payment,
to exempt a transaction under this
division.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 598-13.
By
Council
Members
Keane,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 443.01, 443.011, 443.05, 443.051,
443.11, 443.131, 443.14, 443.17, 443.20,
443.37, and 443.38, as amended by various ordinances relating to taxicabs;
and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Section
443.99, relating to penalties.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
443.37,
division
(a)(1)A.,
strike
“well-groom”
and
insert
“wellgroomed”; and in division (d), strike
“(d)” and insert “(c)”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 607-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for expenses for the Project Clean Program; and authorizing
the Director of Public Works to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies to implement the Program.
Approved by Directors of CommuniDevelopment,
Public
Works,
ty
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Community and
Economic Development, Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 614-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the East
149th Street area sewer rehabilitation
and replacement, which may include
but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

906

May 22, 2013
Ord. No. 615-13.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Pruitt, Cleveland, Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the Milligan Avenue area sewer rehabilitation and replacement, which may
include but not be limited to
installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Utilities,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 616-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brady, Pruitt, Cleveland and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the
West Boulevard area sewer replacement, which may include but not be
limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Utilities,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 647-13.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
accept a cash gift from the Cory
Methodist Church to be used solely for
the replacement of the boiler at the
Cory Methodist Church.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 648-13.
By
Council
Members
Brady,
Sweeney, Keane, Miller, Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for reconstructing Lorain Avenue
from West 150th Street to West 117th
Street; determining the method of
making the public improvement;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into one or more public improvement contracts, contracts
with consultants, and agreements
with public and private entities;
authorizing a Local Project Administration agreement with the Ohio
Department of Transportation; apply
for and accept any federal funds; and
authorizing the Commissioner of Pur-

May 22, 2013
chases and Supplies to acquire,
accept, and record for right-of-way
purposes any real property and easements necessary to make the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 649-13.
By Council Members Mitchell, Conwell, Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for reconstructing Martin Luther
King Jr. Blvd. from Buckingham to
Cedar
Avenue;
determining
the
method of making the public improvement; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts, contracts with consultants, and agreements with public and private entities; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements necessary to make the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 650-13.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts without competitive bidding with Xerox
State & Local Solutions, Inc. for traffic photo enforcement and to install
and maintain automated traffic cameras, for a period not to exceed four
years, with three one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety; and to amend Section
413.031, as amended by Ordinance No.
840-12, passed July 11, 2012, relating to
the use of automated cameras to
impose civil penalties upon red light
and speeding violators.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, at amended Section
413.031(g), on page 3 of the ordinance, line 14, strike “Pearl Road at
Broadview Road” and insert “West
65th Street and Clark Avenue”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 3.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook and
Zone.
Those voting Nay: Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Reed.
Absent: Council Member Pruitt.

The City Record
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 651-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1383-09,
passed October 5, 2009, as amended by
Ordinance No. 716-10, passed June 7,
2010 relating to authorizing the Director of Economic Development to
apply for and accept a HUD 108 loan
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development and
to enter into contract with Flats East
Development LLC to partially finance
the development located at the mouth
of the Cuyahoga River on Lake Erie.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
4, line 2, strike “1383-09-C” and insert
“1383-09-D”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 652-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1740-08,
passed December 1, 2008, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1382-09, passed October 5, 2009 relating to a contract with
Flats East Development, LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the project
costs for removing newly discovered
contaminants and other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
2, line 2, strike “1740-08-D” and insert
“1740-08-E”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 653-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1892-05,
passed February 13, 2006, amended by
Ordinance No. 1381-09, passed October
5, 2009 and Ordinance No. 1757-09,
passed December 7, 2009, relating to a
contract with Flats East Development, LLC, and/or the ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority to
provide development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition of
land for retail, multi-family rental
housing and/or parking facilities at
the Project Site and the construction

907

19
at the Project Site of parking facilities to support retail and/or multifamily rental housing uses at the Project Site.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
2, line 2, strike “1892-05-E” and insert
“1892-05-F”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 658-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland Action to Support Housing, Inc. (CASH) for administrative costs to implement housing
rehabilitation, new housing construction and commercial redevelopment
loan programs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 659-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds and Federal HOME funds
for the operation of the Low Interest
Loan and Grant Programs; and to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies to implement these
programs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 660-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts for
Commercial
Revitalization
and
rebate, grant, and/or loan agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants, and to enter into
agreements for eligible costs to community development corporations for
implementation of the Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Programs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

20
Ord. No. 663-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 with Michael
Benza & Associates, Inc. to provide
surveying services, on an as-needed
basis.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 664-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 with KS Associates, Inc. to provide surveying services, on an as-needed basis.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 665-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Kelley (by departmental request.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Westside Industrial
Retention and Expansion Network to
provide economic development assistance to finance the administration of
the Cleveland Industrial Retention
Initiative.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 666-13.
By Council Members Conwell,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute various deeds of easement
and deeds of temporary easement
granting to Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District certain easement
rights in property located at Forest
Hills Park and Martin Luther King
Jr. Park needed for the Dugway West
Interceptor Relief Sewer Project; and
declaring the easement rights not
needed for public use.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 667-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Cuyahoga County and/or munic-

The City Record
ipalities within Cuyahoga County to
provide weatherization assistance;
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts with individual landlords, tenants, contractors, non-profit organizations, and Cuyahoga County to provide weatherization assistance to
low-income residents of Cuyahoga
County needed to implement the 2013
Home Weatherization Assistance
Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 668-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with the Greater Cleveland
Media Development Corporation dba
Greater Cleveland Film Commission
to assist in the operations of the organization.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 669-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events and to actively market the Cleveland Public Hall as a
premier site for the hosting of major
events.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 670-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating settlement funds collected from
the various cases prosecuted in the
Cleveland Municipal Court Housing
Division for violations of the Cleveland Building Code for purposes of
demolishing condemned and blighted
structures.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

908

May 22, 2013
Ord. No. 672-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service
Commission to employ one or more
professional consultants to perform a
job analysis and to develop, administer and grade examinations for the
Divisions of Police and Fire, Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Secretary of Civil Service
Commission;
Directors
of
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 673-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide various services under the
Bed Bug Assistance Program, for a
period of one year.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 674-13.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for reconstructing Puritas Avenue
from SR 237 to West 130th Street;
determining the method of making
the public improvement; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts, contracts with consultants, and agreements with public
and private entities; and authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire, accept, and
record for right-of-way purposes any
real property and easements necessary to make the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 675-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to test, fuel,
maintain, refurbish, and repair offroad fossil fuel backup electrical,
backup pumping, and backup computer systems, including but not limited
to, providing fuel material, services,
emergency fuel deliveries, tank
rental, fuel testing, conditioning, and
recycling; and the purchase of generators and assorted uninterruptible
electrical systems and current conditioning equipment systems, including
labor and materials to maintain,
repair, or replace if necessary; and
labor and material to test underground storage tanks; for the various

May 22, 2013
divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities, for a period up to two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which is exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 676-13.
by Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 956-11, passed August 17, 2011, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1050-12,
passed August 8, 2012, relating to the
public improvement by requirement
contract of repairing or replacing
roofs or roof systems, for the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 677-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley(by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
and located at 1885 West 25th Street to
1889 West 25th Street, Ltd., or its
designee; and authorizing accepting
an 8.5 foot easement interest from
1889 West 25th Street, or its designee,
for the public purpose of pedestrian
access.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 678-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City’s delivery of its written
consent to the amendment of a TIF
Declaration and a Disbursing Agreement, each originally entered into in
connection with the Flats Phase I
Project, in order to permit the financing of additional improvements relating to the Flats Phase II Project, and
authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 3, strike “and”
and insert a comma; and in line 4,
after “Agreement,” insert “and a TIF
Cooperative Agreement,”.
2. In Section 1, line 5, after
“Bonds” insert “, and to the extent
deemed necessary to effectuate the
foregoing,
the
execution
of
an
amendment to the TIF Cooperative
Agreement
or
other
instrument
amending
the
TIF
Cooperative
Agreement”.
3. In Section 2, line 3, strike “and”
and insert a comma; and in line 4,

The City Record
after “Agreement” insert “and to the
extent necessary, the TIF Cooperative Agreement,”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 689-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks,
Inc., dba PureSafety to provide technical and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of employee performance and professional development
programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront
Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 690-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with OshKosh
Corporation to provide technical and
general training and development
content, activities, and programs in
support of employee performance and
professional development programs
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 691-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation
Personnel Selection International,
Inc. to provide technical and general
training and development content,
activities, and programs in support of
employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 692-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to assess security systems
and
network
security
systems,

909

21
processes, and policies, to recommend
improvements, to design the accepted
recommendations, to acquire any programs, and for training, support, and
maintenance;
determining
the
method of making the public improvement of implementing any accepted
recommended improvements; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the improvements; and authorizing one or more
requirement contracts for hardware,
software, computer supplies, and
other necessary supplies, equipment,
and services necessary to implement
the accepted improvements to the
City’s security systems and network
security systems, processes, and policies, for a period of three years with
two one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 695-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 817-12,
passed June 4, 2012, relating to exercising the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255 with Inland
Waters of Ohio to provide professional services to perform professional
spent aircraft deicing fluid management services at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
1, line 3, after “Ohio” insert “at a cost
not to exceed $2,000,000”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 696-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center
for Families and Children to provide
technical and general training and
development content, activities, and
programs in support of employee performance and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport and Burke
Lakefront Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 700-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants to implement a vehicle driver

22
safety monitoring system, including a
safety management system database,
safety equipment, support services,
and training and maintenance; and
authorizing one or more requirement
or standard contracts for materials,
equipment, supplies, and services,
needed to implement the project, if
not provided under the professional
services contract; for a period of one
year with three one-year options to
renew, the second of which would
require additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 4; and in Section
1, line 4, after “implement” insert
“safety programs, including” in both
places; and in the title line 5, and in
Section 1, line 5, strike “including” in
both places
2. In the title, line 10, strike “project” and insert “programs”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 701-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding
the warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to
the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for surface parking and
staging special event programming
for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and
up to nine other events a year, for a
period of five years with one option to
renew for an additional five year period, exercisable by the Director of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 9, 10,
11, and 12 in their entirety and
insert “other events a year, for a
period of one year.”.
2. Strike Sections 2 and 3 in their
entirety and insert:
“Section 2. That the term of the
lease shall be for a period of one
year.
Section 3. That the rent for the
Leased Premises shall be fair market value as determined by the
Board of Control.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 703-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a written contract with
Shelley Company for the urgent
repairs performed in June 2012 to
pavement
surfaces
on
Runway

The City Record
6L/24R necessary to maintain compliance with FAA regulatory mandates.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 3; in the first
Whereas clause, line 2; in the third
Whereas clause, line 1; and in Section 1, line 2, strike “Shelley” and
insert “Shelly”.
2. In the first Whereas clause, line
3, after “2007” insert “and Board of
Control Resolution No. 158-08, adopted April 2, 2008, approving The
Shelly Company as lowest responsible bidder,”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 704-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a development agreement
with Parker Hannifin, or its designee,
for the construction of a new corporate aviation facility at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a new lease for a
period up to thirty years and enter
into a month-to-month extension of
Parker Hannifin’s existing lease
under Contract No. 32713 for a period
not to exceed one year after it terminates on December 2014.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 705-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing and constructing roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, curb
ramps, brick streets, and appurtenances and authorizing the Director
of Capital Projects to enter into one or
more public improvement requirement contracts for the making of the
improvement, for a one year period.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 9, and in Section 2, line 4, strike “one year” and
insert “eighteen months”.
2. In Section 3, line 1, after “from”
insert “Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF
394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510,
20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20
SF 540, and 20 SF 546, and from”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

910

May 22, 2013
Ord. No. 726-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the Children’s Hunger Alliance to participate
in an after school hot-meal program
during the 2013-14 and 2014-15 school
years at all City recreation centers
and to reimburse the Children’s
Hunger Alliance for the cost of any
unserved meals.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 727-13.
By Council Members Pruitt, Zone
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 5, 7, and 9 of
Ordinance No. 732-07, passed June 11,
2007, as amended by Ordinance No. 5109, passed March 2, 2009, and Ordinance No. 560-11, passed June 6, 2011;
relating to applying for and accepting grants and gifts from public and
private entities to facilitate sustainability projects, establishing the Dedicated Energy Fund, and authorizing
various contracts to implement; and
to supplement the ordinance by
adding new Sections 8a and 8b regarding public improvement contacts.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Sub-Committee on Sustainability, Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 728-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 766-09,
passed June 8, 2009, relating to the
exchange of properties with the
Cleveland Metropolitan School District at 2970 East 73rd Street and 3465
East 130th Street.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 730-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 912-07,
passed June 11, 2007, Section 11 of
Ordinance No. 591-11, passed June 6,
2011, Section 11 of Ordinance No. 60712, passed June 4, 2012, and Section 14
of Ordinance No. 608-12, passed June 4,
2012, as amended by various ordinances, to add additional funding
sources to the 2006 Bridge Plan, and
to the Woodland Avenue, Cedar, and
Fleet Avenue improvement projects.

May 22, 2013
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 731-13.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 0110 PS 2012-111 with Parkworks Inc., now known as L.A.N.D.
Studio, Inc., to expand the project
area to implement detailed design
and engineering plans for certain projects proposed by The Group Plan
Commission.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting Nay: None.
Absent: Council Member Pruitt.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman recused himself from the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 731-13.
Ord. No. 732-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to Contract No. CT
1511-PS 2010-249 with Novarum, Inc. to
provide additional services needed to
develop wireless broadband network
at City Hall and Public Hall.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 733-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 49112, passed April 9, 2012, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1582-12, passed
November 12, 2012, relating to the 2012
Home Weatherization Assistance
Program; and to enter into contracts
necessary to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 734-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
departmental
and
Kelley
(by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio grant from the State of

The City Record
Ohio Department of Development
and/or JobsOhio for environmental
assistance for proposed redevelopment of the former General Environmental Management Facility located
at 2525 Rockefeller Avenue, 2655
Transport Road, and 2727 Transport
Road and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts with
Fortuna Development, LLC, or its
designee, to implement the grant project.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 737-13.
By Council Members Cleveland, J.
Johnson, Miller and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for reconstructing and
streetscaping East 22nd Street from
Orange Avenue to Euclid Avenue;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; authorizing one or more
contracts with consultants, and
agreements with public and private
entities; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements necessary to make the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 738-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Cleveland
Landmarks Commission to enter into
a
contract
with
the
Cleveland
Restoration Society for professional
services to conduct a Landmark Survey of properties to identify potential
Cleveland Landmarks and Historic
Districts.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 1.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting Nay: Council Member Brancatelli.
Absent: Council Member Pruitt.
Ord. No. 739-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
The Hansa Import House, Inc., or its
designee, to provide economic devel-

911

23
opment
assistance
to
partially
finance the project costs for the redevelopment of the building located at
2717 Lorain Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the
property.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 741-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease certain property located in the
vicinity of Miles Avenue and East
151st Street to the Cuyahoga County
Board of Development Disabilities for
the purpose of constructing the Frederick Douglass Farm Park, for a term
of five years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 742-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay
as Moral Claims the sums opposite
the names of the claimants.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 743-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the
Detroit Avenue area sewer replacement or rehabilitation, which may
include but not be limited to
installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 746-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of resurfacing Chester
Avenue, PID 85493; CUY 322-0.50;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into one or more public improvement contracts to construct and professional services to
design the improvement; accepting

24
any gifts or grants from any public or
private entities; to enter into agreements; authorizing the Director to
enter into a Local Project Administration agreement with the Ohio Department of Transportation; and to accept
funds from various sources necessary
to implement the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 749-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide workers’ compensation and
actuarial services, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 751-13.
By Council Members Keane, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the southwest corner of
Alden Avenue and West 159th Street
to Mary Margaret Roche, for purposes
of yard expansion.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 752-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the northwest corner of
Crayton Avenue and East 51st Street
to the Perk Company Inc., for purposes of redevelopment.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development, Public Parks, Properties and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 753-13.
By Council Members Polensek,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Amsterdam Road, N.E.
and a portion of Syracuse Avenue,
N.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord No. 755-13
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance changing
the name of Lonnie Burten Football
Field located at 2511 East 46th Street
to “The Dwayne Browder Field.”
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning,
Law, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 2, after
“Street” insert “is changed”.
2. Insert new Section 2 to read as
follows: “Section 2. That the Director of Public works is authorized to

May 22, 2013
give effect to this ordinance by
planning appropriate signs, nameplates and plaques and altering references to the park to reflect the
name change.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 2 to
new “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 760-13.
By Council Members Polensek,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the improvement of Waterloo Road, PID 89032;
accepting cash contributions from
public or private entities; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into agreements; and causing
payment to the State of Ohio for the
City’s share of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 825-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the zoning
of the Southern Half of the property
located at 1805 Spring Road to Urban
Garden District. (Map Change No.
2335, Sheet No. 2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 603-11.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height District of land located on the north and south sides of
Hough Avenue between E. 55th Street and E. 75th Street to Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District
and a ‘2’ Height District(Map Change No. 2362, Sheet Numbers 4 & 5).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City Planning,
when amended, as follows:
1. Strike Section 1 in its entirety and insert:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Hough Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 55th Street;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the centerline of E. 56th Place;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline and continuing along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Quimby Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Quimby Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of E. 60th Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said centerline of E. 60th and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the centerline of E. 66th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the centerline
of Belvidere Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Belvidere Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the easterly line of Sublot No. 1 in the W.J. Kinnard Subdivision shown on the Recorded Plat in Volume 5,
Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;

912

May 22, 2013

The City Record

25

Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the westerly line of Sublot No. 222 in the Streator and Adams Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
13, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 106-15-035);
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Quimby Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Quimby Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed dated may 20th 1996 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V96046260041 , said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number
106-15-034;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Allen S. Polk III by deed dated September 6th, 1994 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V94485200003,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 106-15-033;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to Rosa L. Marks by deed dated August 19, 2005 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200508190542, said parcel
also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 106-15-031;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 71st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 71st Street to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of E. 75th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line
of Sublot Number 4 in the A.C. Yates Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 21, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of E. 73rd Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 73rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the westerly line of Sublot Number 24 in the Thos. Bolton Est. Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 22, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with a southerly
line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of the Crispus Attucks
Development Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 233, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 71st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 71st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of the Streator & Adams Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 13, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot Number 47 in the
Streator & Adams Subdivision shown on the Recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 66th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 66th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the southerly line of Sublot Number 6 in the Hodge & Brinsmade Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 3;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly
line of Sublot Number 10 in the aforementioned Hodge & Brinsmade Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line of Sublot Number 10 to its intersection with the southerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Alexander Guyea by deed dated February 28, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200102281070;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 65th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 65th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of E. 59th Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Perkins Court;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said centerline and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line Sublot No. 4 in the George E. Dascomb Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 56 of Cuyahoga County Map Records,  (PPN 118-01-003);
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with a line drawn
approximately 135.35 feet southerly of and parallel to the southerly line of Hough Avenue; said line also being
the southerly line of Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 118-01-004;
Thence westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to LTF 55 Properties, LTD by deed dated July 16, 1999 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 199907161023, said
parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 118-01-005;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Hough Avenue;

913

26

The City Record

May 22, 2013

Thence westerly along said centerline of Hough Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 55th Street
and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and a
‘2’ Height District.
2. Strike the existing map and insert this one:

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1559-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of lands located at the intersection of Clark Avenue and W. 65th Street to
Local Retail Business and changing Use District of lands north of Storer Ave. between W. 63rd St. and W. 67 Place to
General Industry as shown shaded on the map (Map Change Number 2427).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City Planning,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, strike lines 3 and 4 in their entirety and insert:
“Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 65th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of the Alexander J. McCrea Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 28, Page 10 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said northerly and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 63rd Street;”.
2. In Section 2, line 5, strike “said southerly prolongation of”.
3. Strike the existing map and replace it with the following:

914

May 22, 2013

The City Record

27

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 25-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An ordinance changing the Use and Height Districts of lands on the north and south sides of Lorain Avenue between
West Boulevard and W. 94th Street shown shaded on the attached map to Local Retail Business and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2428).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City Planning,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 6, and in Section 1, last line strike “a ‘2’ Height” and insert “a ‘1’ Height” in both places.
2. Strike the existing map and replace it with the following:

915

The City Record

28

May 22, 2013

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 512-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) on and
changing the Use District of lands
located at E. 156 St. and Calcutta
Avenue from a Two Family Residential District to Local Retail Business,
a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
District (Map Change No.2430).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 572-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance to change the Use District of lands on the north side of Fairlawn Avenue at W. 146th Street to
Semi-Industry
conditioned
upon
attached Site Development Plan (Map
Change No. 2432).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.

The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final adoption.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED

Res. No. 211-13.
By Council Members Reed, Cleveland, Mitchell, Conwell, Westbrook,
Polensek and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution supporting neutrality as the correct position
of the City’s leaders and affirming
the necessity to impartially review
the facts and circumstances of the
events of November 29, 2012.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Law; Adoption recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Res. No. 19-11.
By Council Members Reed, Pruitt,
Polensek, Mitchell and Miller.
An emergency resolution urging
the General Assembly of the State of
Ohio
to
examine
and
possibly
increase the enhanced mandatory
prison terms for offenders who commit crimes with a firearm under Ohio
Revised
Code
Section
2929.14
(D)(1)(a).
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 2, line 4, strike “Elect”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

916

Res. No. 371-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of West
28th Street (50.00 feet wide).

The City Record

May 22, 2013
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 1457-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
exercise the City’s option to renew
the contract with PSC Metals, Inc.
for the salvaging of vehicles, for the
Department of Public Safety, Division of Police.
Without objection Ordinance No.
1457-12 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid
on the table pursuant to Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18, Nays 0. Ordinance No. 1457-12
Laid on the Table.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the absence of Council Member Terrell H. Pruitt is hereby
authorized. Seconded by Council
Member Cleveland.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
10:47 p.m. to meet at the call of the
Chair.

Allan Dreyer
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
May 15, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 15, 2013
at 10:38 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Natoya
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.

29

On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 235-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Airgas USA, LLC dba Airgas
Great Lakes received on March 20,
2013, for an estimated quantity of
commercial, medical and specialty
gases, all items, for a period of two
years beginning with the date of
execution of the contract, under the
authority of Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$97,825.62, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the specified materials.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such materials, whether
more or less than the estimated
quantity, as may be ordered under
delivery orders separately certified
to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Director
Southerington,
Acting
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 236-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid Terrace Construction Company, Inc. for the public improvement of year 2013-A cleaning and
cement mortar lining of distribution
mains, including a $160,497.20 contingency allowance, all items, for
the Division of Water, Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received
on
March 1, 2013, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1691-12. passed December 3, 2012, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $1,765,469.20, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Company, Inc. for
the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

The Vallejo Company
(CSB/MBE)

$392,000.00
22.204%

Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc. (CSB/FBE)
$138,000.00
7.817%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.

917

Resolution No. 237-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Fabrizi Recycling. Inc. for
the public improvement of Cleveland
Water Main Replacement Phase 2,
including a $140,595.50 contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Water. Department of Public
Utilities, received on February 21,
2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1691-12, passed December
3, 2012, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $1,546,550.50, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Fabrizi
Recycling.
Inc.
for
the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Tech Ready Mix, Inc.
(CSB/MBE)

Simplified Alternatives,
Inc. (CSB/FBE)

$200,000.00
12.93%

$280,000.00
18.10%

Ronyak Bros. Paving, Inc.
$ 75,000.00
4.85%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 238-13.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 699-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 8, 2008, the City, through
its Director of Port Control, entered
into a Lease by Way of Concession
(“Customer Facility Lease”) on February 1, 2010 with DTG Operations,
Inc. (“DTG”), Contract No. 69921, for
the purpose of the use and occupancy of certain space in the Rental
Car Consolidated Facility under the
control of the City in order to serve
the air traveling public and patrons
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (the “Airport”) for the rental
of cars; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1024-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 16, 1997, the City, through its
Director of Port Control, on February 19, 1998, entered into separate
Leases by Way of Concession (the
“Service Center Lease” and the “Customer Facility Lease,” collectively,
the “Leases”) with Dollar Rent A
Car Systems, Inc. (“Dollar”), Contract No. 52457, and Thrifty Rent-ACar (“Thrifty”), Contract No. 52473,
for the purpose of servicing, storing
and maintaining vehicles in support
of the Customer Facility Lease; and
Whereas, each of the Leases prohibits its transfer in any manner
whatsoever without prior authoriza-

30
tion of the City through resolution
of the Board of Control; and
Whereas, by letter dated March 22,
2013,
The
Hertz
Corporation
(“Hertz”) notified the City that the
United States Federal Trade Commission
(“FTC”)
conditioned
its
approval of Hertz’s recent acquisition of Dollar Thrifty Automotive
Group, Inc. upon Hertz’s commitment to divest its Simply Wheelz,
LLC subsidiary which operates its
Advantage brand (“Advantage”) to
an entity capable of successfully
expanding the operation of that
brand and to take specified measures to ensure that the buyer will
have the right to operate that brand
on-airport at certain locations identified by the FTC, including the Airport, and that in December 2012,
Hertz sold Simply Wheelz LLC to
Adreca Holdings Corp. (“Adreca”);
and
Whereas, to enable Simply Wheelz
to operate the Advantage brand
rental car concession at the Airport,
The Hertz Corporation has requested the City’s consent to the assignment of the Leases from DTG, Dollar, and Thrifty to Simply Wheelz;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the request of the Hertz
Corporation by its March 22, 2013 letter, this Board consents to the
assignment of the Leases from DTG,
and
Thrifty
to
Simply
Dollar,
Wheelz, LLC and to Simply Wheelz,
LLC’s assumption of all DTG’s, Dollar’s and Thrifty’s obligations under
the Leases, effective May 15, 2013.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and
appropriate to implement the consent to assignment granted above,
provided that the terms of such
assignment do not conflict with the
terms and conditions of Leases.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 239-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of EnviroCom Construction,
Inc., for the public improvement of
constructing
new
and
installing
replacement security bollards and
making other related improvements
at the Main Terminal upper and
lower roadways at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, base bid
and contingency of 10% of base bid,
for the Department of Port Control,
received on January 31, 2013 under
the authority of Ordinances No. 74811 and 395-12, respectively passed by
the Cleveland City Council June 20,
2011 and May 14, 2012, upon a unit
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of $664,400.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Port Control is authorized to
enter into a public improvement contract for the improvement with the
bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the

The City Record

May 22, 2013

following subcontractors by EnviroCom Construction, Inc., is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

Tucker-Grubbs

27.09%-CSB/MBE
$180,000.00

TraffTech

3.76%-CSB
$ 25,000.00

MA Builders

0.00%-non-certified
$ 40,000.00

21st Century

0.00%-non-certified
$ 60,000.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 240-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Independence Excavating,
Inc., for the public improvement the
non-standard Runway Safety Areas
for Runway 6L - 24R at Burke Lakefront Airport, bid total is comprised
of Volume A and Volume B, for the
Department of Port Control, received
on March 28, 2013 under the authority of Ordinances No. 710-12, passed
by the Cleveland City Council June
4, 2012, upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
in
the
aggregate
amount of $16,218,732.16, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
public improvement contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the
following subcontractors by IndeInc.,
is
pendence
Excavating,
approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

Ballast Construction, Inc.
.06% - DBE
$
10,000.00
Royal Landscape Gardening,
Inc.
1.55%-DBE
$ 253,000.00
Simplified Alternatives, Inc.
18.54%-DBE
$3,020,000.00
Antigo Construction, Inc.
.03% Non-DBE
$
5,000.00

Hi-Lite Markings, Inc.
2.00% Non-DBE
$ 375,000.00
Rauhorn Electric, Inc.
11.00% Non-DBE
$1,820,000.00
The Shelley Company
12.00% Non-DBE
$2,020,000.00
Tenable Protective Services
1.00% Non-DBE
$
94,000.00

918

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, BenSmith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
der,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 241-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Gordon Food Service,
for an estimated quantity of various
foods,
food
products,
beverages,
products
condiments
and
paper
needed for the food service operation at Camp Forbes, all items, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works, for a period
of 1 (one) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on April 12, 2013, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1585-12,
passed December 3, 2012, and Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $93,580.35,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into requirement contract for the
goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish all the City’s requirements for the goods and/or services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 242-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent No.
005-30-010 located at 2081 West 93rd
Street in Ward 16; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Kristel Smith has proposed to the City to lease and develop the parcel for market garden;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 16 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in

May 22, 2013
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of five years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Kristel Smith for
the lease and development of Permanent Parcel No. 005-30-010 located
at 2081 West 93rd Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $5.00,
which amount is determined to be
not less than the fair market value
of the parcel for uses according to
the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 243-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-21-068 located at 6304 Utica
Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Ina Grace Buckley has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Ina Grace Buckley for the sale and development of

The City Record
Permanent
Parcel
No.
104-21-068
located
at
6304
Utica
Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 244-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-01-029 located at 1868 East
81st Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Nancy Y. Simpson has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Nancy Y. Simpson
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 119-01-029 located
at 1868 East 81st Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $500.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.

919

31
Resolution No. 245-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-11-091 located at 5322 Homer
Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Luke J. Brill has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Luke J. Brill for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 104-11-091 located at
5322 Homer Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 246-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
108-26-044
located
at
10612
Bryant Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

32
Whereas, Alfred White and Debra
White have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Alfred White and
Debra White for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10826-044
located
at
10612
Bryant
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 247-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-31-110 located at 1076 East
78th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Patricia Dawn Sigmon
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified

The City Record
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Patricia Dawn
Sigmon for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10531-110 located at 1076 East 78th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 248-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 126-02-044 located at 8101 Austrian Court in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas,
Michael
Head
and
Angela Head have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Michael Head
and Angela Head for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 126-02-044 located at 8101 Austrian Court, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the

920

May 22, 2013
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 249-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-14-137 located at 1382 East
89th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Lamont Wynn has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Lamont Wynn for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 107-14-137 located at
1382 East 89th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 250-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and

May 22, 2013
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-21-139 located at 1071 East
64th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Christina Ermidis has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Christina Ermidis
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 105-21-139 located
at 1071 East 64th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 251-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 126-07-048 located at 9009 Folsom
Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Union Grove Baptist
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
open space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

The City Record
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codifid
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Union Grove Baptist Church for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12607-048
located
at
9009
Folsom
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $100.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 252-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 110-15-071 located at 849 East
130th Street in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Leonard F. Davis has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City

921

33
of Cleveland, with Leonard F. Davis
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 110-15-071 located
at 849 East 130th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 253-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-27-024 located at 1016 East
74th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Valicia Smith Jones has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Valicia Smith
Jones for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 105-27-024
located at 1016 East 74th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $330.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.

34
Resolution No. 254-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 006-07-027 located at 7307 Elton
Avenue in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Dr. Orin J. Martin and
Dr. Dorothy L. S. Martin have proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Dr. Orin J. Martin and Dr. Dorothy L. S. Martin for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 006-07-027 located at
7307 Elton Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
Resolution No. 255-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-24-015 located at 3583 West
47th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,

The City Record
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Akel S. Zayed has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Akel S. Zayed for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 016-24-015 located at
3583 West 47th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Flask.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

922

May 22, 2013
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JUNE 3, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-64: 3025 West 25th
Street (Ward 14)
The 3025 LLC, owner, and Hanan
Albanna, prospective tenant, appeal
to establish use as a tire repair shop
in a C2 Local Retail Business District; subject to the limitations
under Section 343.01 the use is not
permitted and first permitted in a
General Retail District in accordance with the provisions under Sec343.11(b)(2)(H)(4)
and
as
tions
minor motor vehicle repair defined
in Section 325.483; and contrary to
Section 352.10, a landscape strip 4feet wide is proposed where a width
of 6-feet is required along West 25th
Street and Walton Avenue, pursuant
to the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-76: 3193 West 32nd
Street (Ward 14)
Marcelo Galarza, owner, and Beth
Trembly, tenant, appeal under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and dispute the
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau, Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division regarding the Civil
Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC00115303 issued on March 8, 2013
for the property located at 3193
West 32nd Street and failure to comply with Section 551.111(B) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-77: 838 Eddy Road
(Ward 10)
Sip One, LLC, owner, and Sam
Salti, prospective tenant, appeal to
establish use as a motor vehicle
minor repair garage on a 92' x 120'
parcel in a C2 Local Retail Business
District; the proposed use contrary
to Section 343.01 and is first permitted in a General Retail District
in accordance with provisions under
Section 343.14:
(a)
no
motor
vehicle
service
garage shall be located on a parcel
within 100 feet of a Residence District unless the following conditions
are met:
(1) a solid board-on-board wood
fence or brick or stone wall at least
6 feet in height is placed along any
property line abutting a Residence
District in addition to any otherwise
required landscaping;
(2) no motor vehicle repair activity occurs within 10 feet of a Residence District;
(3) no service bay or garage door
is oriented toward a Residence District.
(b) No service station shall be
located on a “mid-block” property
except if located on a street with a
right-of-way 80 feet wide (“mid-

May 22, 2013
block” is any property other than a
corner property located at the intersection of 2 streets.
(c) No motor vehicle repairs shall
be performed before 7:00 a.m. or
after 9:00 p.m.
(d) A motor vehicle service station shall include no more than 4
service bays- for corner properties
such service bays shall be oriented
to a street characterized by commercial
or
industrial
uses
as
opposed to residential or local retail
uses, if 1 or more of the abutting
streets can be so characterized.
Building and Housing Department
may consult with the City Planning
Commission in making such determination.
(e) All tires, barrels, discarded
auto parts and outdoor storage of
materials, used or sold on the
premises must be screened from
view from adjacent properties and
streets by a “screen barrier” as
required under Section 352.10;
(f) No commercial tractor trailer
or
semi-trailer,
except
trailers
designed to be pulled by passenger
automobiles may be parked on the
premises for more than 4 hours
within any 24 hour period, except in
case of emergency. Not more than 4
customer vehicles may be stored
overnight in an outdoor location and
a vehicle that is not in working
order shall not be stored on such
premises for more than 48 hours.
Subject to Sections 352.08-352.11 a
10-feet wide transition landscaped
strip providing 75 percent year
round opacity is required where the
property abuts the residential district; and a 6-feet wide frontage
landscaped strip is required along
Arlington Avenue and Eddy Road.
Calendar No. 13-78: 2831 Franklin
Boulevard (Ward 3)
Westside Masonic Temple, owner,
appeals to change use from a private club social hall to a performing arts center and for-hire event
center an existing two-story building located on irregular shaped
acreage in a D2 Local Retail Business District; subject to the limitations under Section 343.01 the proposed change is not permitted and
first permitted in a General Retail
District,
pursuant
to
Section
343.11(b)(2)(L) and in accordance
with the distance regulations under
Section 347.12(a), a separation equal
to 500 feet is required from residential districts to the north, west and
south of the property and a church
(Franklin Circle Christian Church,
1688 Fulton Road), to the east; and
by the requirements under Section
349.04(e) a total accessory, off-street
parking area in the amount of three
times the gross floor area or 26,646
square feet is required and an existing parking area of approximately
7,795 square feet is provided; and no
landscape plan is provided, contrary
to Sections 352.08-352.12 that requires
a landscaped strip of 10-feet in
width and providing 75 percent year
round opacity along an alley that
abuts the Two-Family District and a
landscaped
frontage
strip
6-feet
wide providing 50 percent year
round opacity is required to screen
the
parking
lot
from
Franklin
Boulevard.
Calendar No. 13-79: 1200 West 76th
Street (Ward 15)
The Grand C Corporation, owner,
appeals to change use of property to
apartment units located on an irreg-

The City Record

35

ular shaped parcel in a B3 Local
Retail Business District; contrary to
Section 357.04 no front yard is proposed and a depth of 30-feet is
required; no side yards are proposed
where 8-feet are required by the provisions
under
Section
357.09(b)(2)(C); and proposing a
maximum lot area coverage of
81,600 square feet contrary to 11,342
that is permitted under Section
355.04. A separate permit is required
for construction of a parking lot
identified as parcel 002-03-016 in
accordance with Section 327.02(b) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-80: 3107 Detroit
Avenue, aka 1421 West 32nd
Street (Ward 3)
Ohio City Development Partners,
LLC, owner, appeals to construct a
4-story 62 unit apartment building
proposed on consolidated parcels in
a D2 Semi-Industry District; proposing a maximum gross floor area of
73,685 square feet contrary to Section 355.04(b); and where a 10-feet
specific setback exists along Detroit
Avenue, a fence 5-feet high is proposed to be setback zero feet from
Detroit Avenue contrary to Section
357.07; and proposing a rear yard
depth of approximately 6-feet and
interior side yard approximately 5feet where a rear yard of 29-feet is
required and interior side yard of 14feet 9 inches wide is required in
accordance with the requirements
under
Sections
357.08(b)(2)
and
357.09(b)(2)(C) in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-61: 1662 Crawford
Road (Ward 7)
City of Cleveland, owner, and
Jamel Rahkeera, prospective tenant,
appeal to erect a farm stand and a
30' x 72' hoop house on an irregular shaped parcel located in a D2
Multi-Family District; subject to Section 337.25(d)(3), no agricultural
produce or related products may be
sold from the property of an agricultural use and no farm stand for
the sale of such products may be
located on the property unless the
Board of Zoning Appeals determines
after public notice and hearing, that
the farm stand and sales will meet
a community need without adversely affecting the neighborhood and in
making its determination, the Board
shall consider, among others,
a) the nature of nearby uses of
land with respect to their sensitivity to the activity associated with
farm stand sales;
b) the proximity of the farm stand
to one (1) family and two (2) family houses;
c) traffic volumes on the street
where the subject property is located;
d) the availability of off-street
parking or on-street parking to
serve the farm stand use;
e) the proximity of other farm
stands serving the immediate area;
and
f) the maintenance of a substantially unobstructed view in the setback area which shall include a
clear view through the farm stand
above a height of three (3) feet.
(Filed 4-12-13; dismissed 5-6-13; reinstated 5-13-13)
Secretary

923

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 20, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 20,
2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-62: 2676 West 14th
Street
Walter
Holtkamp,
owner,
and
Sean Kelly and Andrea Thornton,
prospective
tenants,
appealed
to
establish use for a tattoo studio in
a D2 Local Retail Business District;
subject to condition.
Calendar No. 13-66: 2280 East 55th
Street
Elabed, LLC appealed to construct
a
retail
store
on
consolidated
parcels in split zoning between General Retail Business and Multi-Family Districts; subject to revised plan
for fencing.
Calendar No. 13-67: 5400 Herman
Avenue
Argentina
Rocco
appealed
to
include an outdoor patio with a nonconforming tavern use in a B2 TwoFamily District; subject to conditions and revised plan.
Calendar No. 13-73: 11607 Euclid
Avenue
Maximum
Independence
Living
appealed to renovate an apartment
building and change first floor
office space to retail use subject to
lot split and consolidation of parcels
in a C2 General Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-71: 17604 Sedalia
Avenue
Khalil Rasheed appealed from a
decision of the City of Cleveland
Parking Violations Bureau Waste
Collection and Photo Safety Division
and Civil Infraction Ticket Number
WEC00155036.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 13-40: 3682 East 131st
Street
Anderson Davis appealed to establish use as a motor vehicle minor
repair garage in a B1 Local Retail
Business District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-63: 1002 Kenilworth
Avenue postponed to June 24,
2013.
Calendar No. 13-31: 14401 Harvard
Avenue postponed to July 1, 2013.

The City Record

36
No appeals were heard by the
Board on May 13, 2013 and none
were adopted and approved on May
20, 2013.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
Public notice is hereby given that
the
City
of
Cleveland
Public
Records Committee will hold a Regular Meeting on Thursday, May 30,
2013 in the City Law Department’s
South Conference Room, located at
Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, East, Room 106, commencing at 9:00 a.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.
Maureen Harper, Chair

April 24, 2013, May 1, 2013, May 8,
2013, May 15, 2013 and May 22, 2013

to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, JUNE 7, 2013
File No. 83-13 — Parts and Labor to
Repair and/or Replace Exercise
Equipment in the City’s Recreation Centers (Re-bid), for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2013
AT
1:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
ROOM 12,
601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

May 22, 2013
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 20, 2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00)
ONLY IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2013 AT
9:30
A.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
DIVISION
OF
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION,
ROOM
518,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
May 22, 2013 and May 29, 2013
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12, 2013

PUBLIC NOTICE
May 15, 2013 and May 22, 2013
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing

THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2013
File No. 81-13 — Purchase of Various Types of Safety Equipment
Required for OSHA/PERRP Compliance,
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public Utilities as authorized by Ordinance
No. 26-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, January
28, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2013 AT
9:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 82-13 — Rental of Various
Heavy Duty Equipment, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1630-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 3, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 15, 2013 and May 22, 2013
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2013
File No. 90-13 — City of Cleveland
Construction
Contract
for
the
City Wards for 2013 Concrete
Requirements Contract, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 705-13 passed by

924

File No. 84-13 — Janitorial Supplies,
for the Various Divisions of City
Government,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 446-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 9, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, JUNE 4, 2013 AT 11:30
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 89-13 — Criminal and Civil
Filing System, for the Cleveland
Municipal
Clerk
of
Courts,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Section 181.101, of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2013 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL CLERK OF COURTS, JUSTICE CENTER, 1200 ONTARIO
STREET, LEVEL TWO, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
May 22, 2013 and May 29, 2013
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 19, 2013
File No. 85-13 — Generator Maintenance and Repairs, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Section
131.64 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
MAY 30, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH

May 22, 2013
STREET, BUILDING 1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 86-13 — Purchase of Elgin
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 131.64 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
MAY 30, 2013 AT
10:30 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET, BUILDING 1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 87-13 — Re-Manufactured
Allison
Transmissions
and
Repairs, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
1330-A-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
MAY 30, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
EAST
49TH
4150
STREET, BUILDING 1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 91-13 — Various City of
Cleveland
Offices
Interior
Improvements, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 533-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 4, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
ONLY IN
DOLLARS ($25.00)
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND PUBLIC
AUDITORIUM, ROOM LL10, 500
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2013
File No. 88-13 — Quicklime and
Hydrated Lime, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.24 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
MAY 30, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,

The City Record
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
May 22, 2013 and May 29, 2013

37
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 679-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution approving the adoption of the Countywide
All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan
for Cuyahoga County, 2011 Update.
Whereas, hazard mitigation is any
sustainable action taken to reduce
or eliminate damage from future
disaster; and
Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation
Act of 2000 requires all communities
that desire to apply for federal mitigation programs to have an all-natural hazard mitigation plan; and
Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation
Act of 2000 also requires communities to review and revise the plan at
least every five (5) years to reflect
changes in development, progress in
local mitigation efforts, and changes
in priorities, in order to continue eligibility to apply for federal mitigation programs; and
Whereas, the all-natural hazard
mitigation plan must meet the criteria established by the Federal
Emergency
Management
Agency
(“FEMA”); and
Whereas, for disasters that are
declared after November 1, 2004 that
the local government must have an
approved mitigation plan; and
Whereas, in collaboration with
participating jurisdictions, the Cuyahoga County Government, through
the Cuyahoga County Office of
Emergency Management developed
and maintains such a mitigation
plan which is entitled the “Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation
Plan for Cuyahoga County”; and
Whereas,
each
jurisdiction
requesting approval of the plan
must document that the plan has
been formally adopted; and
Whereas, adoption of the “Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan”
is a condition of eligibility to
receive federal mitigation funds
available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the adoption of the Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation
Plan for Cuyahoga County, 2011
Update.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to State Hazard Mitigation
Planner of Ohio Emergency Management Agency Dean W. Ervin, Sr.,
Emergency Management Agency,
2855 West Dublin – Granville Road,
Columbus, Ohio 43244-2055.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

925

Res. No. 759-13
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 13411 Miles
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1094-12, objecting to said renewal; and repealing Resolution No. 68613, adopted May 6, 2013.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to Joe D’s Lounge, Inc., DBA Joe D’s
Lounge, 13411 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4294097-0001 by Resolution No. 109412, adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to Joe
D’s Lounge, Inc., DBA Joe D’s Lounge,
13411 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 42940970001, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1094-12, containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That Resolution No. 68613, adopted May 6, 2013, is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 763-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit at 783 East 185th
Street rear and patio and 779 East
185th Street, 1st floor and basement
and repealing Resolution No. 1495-12,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
783 East 185th Street rear and patio
and 779 East 185th Street, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent No. 6520440-0030 by Resolution No. 1495-12 adopted by the
Council on October 15, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon a cooperation agree-

38
ment
between
Councilmember
Michael D. Polensek and Applicant
Young Johnson, President of Ohio
Restaurant Investment Corporation;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D4
and D3A Liquor Permit to Ohio
Restaurant Investment Corporation,
779-783 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44119, Permanent No. 65204400030, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1495-12, containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 764-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 7763-71 Broadway Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1090-12, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to WEP, Inc., DBA Bum’s Saloon,
7763-71 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
9323549 by Resolution No. 1090-12,
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
WEP, Inc., DBA Bum’s Saloon, 7763-71
Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 9323549, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1090-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

The City Record
Res. No. 765-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 3924 East 71st Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1081-12,
objecting
to
said
renewal;
and
repealing
Resolution
No.
684-13
adopted May 6, 2013.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to J & FS, Inc.,
DBA Mr. Bill’s, 3924 East 71st Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 4174451 by Resolution No.
1081-12, adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to J & FS, Inc., DBA Mr.
Bill’s, 3924 East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4174451, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 108112, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That Resolution No. 68413, adopted May 6, 2013 is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 767-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
9111 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest, LLC, DBA Dollar General,
#13506, 9111 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit Number
22348151600; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

926

May 22, 2013
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General, #13506,
9111 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permit Number 22348151600,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 768-13.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3218
East 135th Street, 1st floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from M & H Food
Mart, Inc., DBA Eastside Grocery,
3218 East 135th Street, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 5379065 to Eastside Grocery,
Inc., 3218 East 135th Street, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 2403479; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard

May 22, 2013
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from M & H Food Mart, Inc., DBA
Eastside Grocery, 3218 East 135th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 5379065 to
Eastside Grocery, Inc., 3218 East
135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 2403479;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 769-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15222
Waterloo Road and repealing Resolution No. 1124-12, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 15222
Waterloo Road by Resolution No.
1124-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012 and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

The City Record
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon a cooperation agreement
between
Councilmember
Michael D. Polensek and Applicant
Samira Abuaun, President of Waterloo Gas & Go, Inc.; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Waterloo Gas &
Go, Inc., 15222 Waterloo Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
9427085 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 112412, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 770-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D4 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3400 St. Clair Avenue and
repealing
Resolution
No.
622-13,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a D4
and D6 Liquor Permit to Ronndurah
Properties,
LLC,
DBA
Prodigy
Lounge, 3400 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent No.
75054020001, adopted by the Council
on April 29, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D4
and D6 Liquor Permit to Ronndurah
Properties,
LLC,
DBA
Prodigy
Lounge, 3400 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent No.
75054020001, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 62213, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

927

39
Res. No. 775-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Reed, Brady and Mitchell.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Congress to pass
HR 1213, the Common Sense Housing Investment Act of 2013, to enact
the goals of reforming the mortgage
interest deduction program and providing funding to the National Housing Trust in order to expand housing options and greater tax fairness.
Whereas, “Stable housing is the
foundation upon which people build
their lives – absent a safe, decent
and affordable place to live, it is
next to impossible to achieve good
health,
positive
educational
outcomes, or reach one’s economic
potential.” (U.S. Interagency Council
on Homelessness, Opening Doors:
Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent
and End Homelessness, 2010); and
Whereas, there are 42,000 extremely low income renter households in
Cuyahoga County who receive some
subsidy from the federal government to pay for rent; and
Whereas, 21% of renter households in Cuyahoga County pay more
than half of their incomes for rent;
and
Whereas, there is a shortage of
65,000 homes that are affordable and
available for extremely low income
renter households in Greater Cleveland based on request for vouchers
in the 2011 lottery; and
Whereas, this shortage of homes
that are affordable and available for
extremely low income renter households is a major contributing cause
of
homelessness
in
the
United
States; and
Whereas, Congress established the
National Housing Trust Fund in
2008 as a dedicated fund intended to
provide revenue to build, preserve,
rehabilitate and operate housing for
people with the lowest incomes,
including people who are homeless;
and
Whereas, the National Housing
Trust Fund has not received any
dollars since it was created, despite
the growing need for rental housing
that extremely low income households can afford; and
Whereas, investing in the National Housing Trust Fund will create
jobs in the construction trades and
in property management; and
Whereas, the United States Congress is considering changes to the
mortgage interest deduction; and
Whereas, over three-quarters of
the benefit for the mortgage interest deduction goes to households
with income in the top fifth of all
taxpayers; and
Whereas, only slightly more than
half of homeowners who pay interest on their mortgages benefit from
the mortgage interest deduction;
and
Whereas, with modest modifications to the mortgage interest tax
expenditure, the number of homeowners with mortgages who get a
tax break could increase with most
of the expanded benefit going to
homeowners with mortgages with
incomes under $100,000 a year; and
Whereas, with modest modifications to the mortgage interest tax
expenditure,
its
cost
could
be
reduced,
freeing
up
federal
resources to direct to housing assistance to needy households; and

40
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports expanding mortgage interest tax benefits to more middle class
and lower income homeowners by
modifying the mortgage interest
deduction by converting the tax
deduction to a tax credit and by
reducing the maximum size of a
mortgage for which interest can be
deducted; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
urges
Congress
to
direct
sums
resulting from mortgage interest
deduction
modifications
to
the
National Housing Trust Fund to
build,
preserve,
rehabilitate
and
operate
rental
housing
that
is
affordable for extremely low income
households; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the United States Congress to pass
HR 1213, the Common Sense Housing
Investment Act of 2013, to enact the
goals of reforming the mortgage
interest deduction program and providing funding to the National Housing Trust in order to expand housing
options and greater tax fairness.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to the Office of Homeless
Services Advisory, the Northeast Ohio
Coalition for the Homeless, Representative Keith Ellison, Representative
Marcia Fudge, and Senator Sherrod
Brown.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 776-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution designating May 20, 2013 as Expand Medicaid Eligibility in Ohio Day in
Cleveland.
Whereas, this Council passed resolutions on March 25, 2013 and April
15, 2013 urging Governor Kasich and
the Ohio General Assembly to propose
and
pass
a
budget
that
expands Medicaid eligibility in Ohio,
and to include Medicaid Expansion
in their budget bills; and
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly has a unique opportunity to
expand Medicaid eligibility to cover
people making up to 138% of the
federal
poverty
level,
which
is
$15,420 for an individual or $26,352
for a family of three; and
Whereas,
such
an
expansion
would be supported by generous federal
funding
levels
that
have
already been set aside for that purpose under the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act (ACA),
including an average of 95% of the
expansion cost through 2019; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio hospitals, including the Cleveland Clinic,
University
Hospitals,
Sisters
of

The City Record
Charity Health System and others,
along with the business community
and concerned Ohioans, are working
to
convince
lawmakers
that
Ohioans’ lives and the economy are
at stake; and
Whereas, it is estimated that if
Medicaid Expansion is approved in
Ohio at least 600,000 low-income
working Ohioans who are currently
uninsured will have access to health
care through Ohio’s Medicaid managed care plans, and seek more preventive care with better health outcomes as a result; and
Whereas, the nonpartisan Health
Policy Institute of Ohio’s countylevel study projects that in Cuyahoga County, about 46,000 uninsured
residents ages 19 to 64 would gain
coverage through Medicaid if expansion occurs; and
Whereas, larger urban areas like
Northeast Ohio may see as many as
4,300 new jobs, and because of the
higher employment, Cuyahoga County is projected to net an additional
$9 million in additional sales tax
revenues from Medicaid managed
care plans as well as general sales
tax, according to the Health Policy
Institute report; and
Whereas,
notwithstanding
the
health and economic benefits that
the passage of Medicaid Expansion
would bring, both the House of Representatives and the Senate have
chosen to remove Medicaid Expansion from consideration in Ohio’s
biennium budget; and
Whereas, recognizing the benefits
of the passage of Medicaid Expansion, consumer groups from across
Ohio are putting together activities
to highlight the need for Medicaid
Expansion and to urge Ohio Legislators to pass Medicaid Expansion
in Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Ohio’s consumer groups to get
Medicaid Expansion passed by the
Ohio General Assembly by designating May 20, 2013 as Expand Medicaid
Eligibility in Ohio Day in Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich
and the Ohio General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Res. No. 782-13.
By Council Members Brady, Kelley,
Westbrook, Polensek, Keane, Zone,
Cleveland, Miller, Mitchell, J. Johnson, Brancatelli, Sweeney, Conwell
and Cimperman.
An emergency resolution opposing
House Bills 151 and 152 and any socalled “right to work” laws and further opposing the “Workplace Free-

928

May 22, 2013
dom”
Constitutional
Amendment,
and supporting fair labor practices
for working families and the local
community.
Whereas, special interest groups
are promoting a so-called “right to
work” law called “Workplace Freedom” which is actually a corporatebacked attack on working families
and the middle-class; and
Whereas, “right to work” laws
give
multi-national
corporations
even more power to outsource jobs,
cut wages and reduce benefits at
the expense of workers, small businesses and the local economy; and
Whereas, workers in states with
such “right to work” laws have a
consistently lower quality of life
than in other states: lower wages,
higher poverty and infant mortality
rates, less access to health care and
poorer education for their children;
and
Whereas, these laws weaken the
voice of everyday heroes - nurses,
firefighters, police officers and first
responders - by making it harder to
bargain for safe staffing levels and
necessary equipment to keep citizens safe; and
Whereas, these laws will silence
whistleblowers who are counted on
to keep workplaces safe, protect
consumer goods, services and products and safeguard our natural
resources and environment; and
Whereas, the implementation of
“right to work” laws will erode the
tax base that supports vital services
in our communities, such as education, public safety, roads, and water;
and
Whereas, less than 2 weeks ago,
the Ohio House introduced House
Bills 151 and 152 which are purported “right to work” laws for both
private and public workers; and
Whereas, less than two years ago,
Ohio voters rejected a similar political attack on Ohio’s workers by voting NO on Issue 2, thus expressing
the sentiment that the collective
bargaining rights of workers should
be protected; and
Whereas,
business
and
labor
should work together to create good
jobs and improve the economy; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
House Bills 151 and 152 and any socalled “right to work” laws and further opposes the “Workplace Freedom” Constitutional Amendment, and
supports fair labor practices for working families and the local community.
Section 2. That the Clerk of the
Council is directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the Honorable
John Kasich, Governor and all members of the Ohio General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

May 22, 2013
Ord. No. 1650-12.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 131.36 relating to the
lease of the Hough Multi-Service Center.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as the
Hough Multi-Service Center located
at 8555 Hough Avenue, which is suitable for lease by another party for a
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 131.36 to read as follows:
Section 131.36
Lease
of
the
Hough Multi-Service Center
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to lease space at the
Hough Multi-Service Center located
at 8555 Hough Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio, following a rental formula
which shall be set by the Board of
Control.
(b) The Director may lease all or
any portion of the Center or grant the
right to use the same, for a period not
to exceed one (1) year. The Director
may make such provision for renewal
or extension of the lease or grant as
he or she may deem advisable from
time to time for additional periods not
exceed one (1) year each, providing
that the option or right of renewal
shall be exercisable by the Director.
The lease or grant shall not be transferred or assigned by the lessee or
grantee thereof to any other person
without the consent, in writing, of the
Director. Such right or grant may be
revoked by the Director upon violation of terms of the lease. Provisions
shall be made by the Director for the
payment of the rent at such regular
times and at such place as may be
deemed by the Director to be most
advisable.
(c) That the lease may authorize
the Lessee to make improvements to
the leased premises subject to the
approval of appropriate City agencies
and officials.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 166-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 186.02, 186.03, 186.04 and
186.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1356-03, passed
November 17, 2003, relating to public art.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 186.02,
186.03, 186.04 and 186.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1356-03, passed November 17, 2003,
are hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 186.02 Applicable Projects
(a) Project Cost. Public art shall be
required as a part of any of the activities specified in this section when
those activities are undertaken by the
City of Cleveland on property owned
by the City and the project cost, as
defined in section 186.03, is three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) or
more. If an ordinance authorizes the
City to engage in an activity specified
in division (c) where the total project
cost is less than three hundred thousand
dollars
($300,000.00)
and
requires public art, the applicable
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(b) Project Type. The public art
requirement shall apply to the following projects:
(1) Construction of a new building,
bridge, parking garage, or other
above-ground structure;
(2) Renovation and/or expansion
of a building, bridge, parking garage,
or other above-ground structure if the
cost of the work represents more than
one-half (1/2) the value of the building, bridge, parking garage, or structure, excluding the cost of renovating
interior areas not accessible to the
public;
(3) Development or redevelopment
of a park or plaza, excluding projects
limited to maintenance, repair and/or
landscaping; or
(4) Development of underground
facilities, such as parking garages,
accessible or visible to the public.
(c) Streetscape Projects. The public
art requirement shall apply to
streetscape projects, including the
streetscape component of any street
reconstruction project. For purposes
of calculating project cost for
streetscape projects only, the project
cost shall include costs covered by
funds from which public art is excluded as an object of expenditure.
Section 186.03 Public Art Requirement
(a) Required Funding. One and onehalf percent (1.5%) of the cost of an
applicable project shall be devoted to
provision of public art. The calculation of project cost shall include construction costs, including construction management costs, but shall
exclude costs for land, interior fixtures and furnishings, architectural
fees, engineering fees, and costs covered by funds from which public art is
excluded as an object of expenditure.
The cost of an applicable project shall
be calculated based on the amounts of
the executed applicable construction
and construction management contracts.
(b) Qualifying Public Art Projects.
Public art required by the regulations
of this chapter may take the form of a
discrete object of visual art, such as a
sculpture or mural, permanent or temporary in nature, or may take the
form of artist-designed functional elements of a project. An artist shall collaborate on the public art required by
the regulations of this chapter.

929

41
(c) Location of Public Art. Public
art required by the regulations of this
chapter, shall be placed on the site of
the applicable project. If the City
Planning Commission, in consultation with the Public Art Committee,
determines that placement of public
art on the applicable project site
would be inappropriate due to inadequate public visibility or public
access, the Commission shall consult
with applicable City departments and
thereafter may select an alternate
site to locate the public art
(d) Aggregation of Funds. If the
City Planning Commission, in consultation with the Public Art Committee,
determines that the purposes of this
chapter will best be met by combining
the public art funds from two (2) or
more applicable projects, the Commission may authorize the execution of a
single public art project using the
funding from multiple projects.
(e) Ownership of Public Art. All art
located on City property and acquired
under the requirements of this chapter shall be owned by the City of
Cleveland, unless other ownership is
specified in an ordinance pertaining
to a particular public art project.
Section 186.04 Program Administration
(a) Responsibilities. The Cleveland
City Planning Commission shall
administer the Public Art Program,
with the assistance of its staff and
advisory committee, and in conjunction with the Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects. Responsibilities shall
include, among others, the following:
(1) Preparing and adopting guidelines, rules and procedures necessary
to implement the regulations of this
chapter, which guidelines shall
include a mechanism for neighborhood
resident
and
stakeholder
involvement in the public art selection process;
(2) Developing and updating a citywide public art plan that identifies
public art opportunities in the City of
Cleveland;
(3) Establishing and maintaining a
registry of materials submitted by
artists for consideration by the Public
Art Committee;
(4) Issuing requests for proposals
and conducting the process of selecting artists and artwork for each project;
(5) Developing and maintaining an
inventory of public art in the City of
Cleveland, and producing and disseminating educational and promotional
materials regarding these works of
art;
(6) Ensuring widespread public
participation in the Public Art Program;
(7) Coordinating public art projects
with participating City departments
and other participating agencies and
organizations;
(8) Establishing a schedule and
standards for maintenance of public
art in consultation with the artist, if
feasible; and
(9) Providing periodic written
reports to the Mayor and to City Council, no less frequently than once per
calendar year, documenting activities, accomplishments and expenditures and demonstrating compliance
with the regulations of this chapter.
(b) Public Art Committee. The City
Planning Commission shall establish
an advisory committee, to be known
as the Public Art Committee, to
advise and assist the Commission in
conducting the Public Art Program.
(c) Public Art Committee Membership. The Public Art Committee shall
be composed of the following mem-

42

The City Record

bers, each appointed by the Chairman
of the City Planning Commission on
nomination by the Mayor, unless otherwise stated:
(1) A visual artist;
(2) An administrator of an arts
organization;
(3) A recognized expert in the field
of public art;
(4) A City resident active in community affairs;
(5) A staff member of a City department that engages in projects subject
to the provisions of this chapter, who
shall be chairperson of the Committee;
(6) A professional architect or landscape architect;
(7) A member of Cleveland City
Council or its staff, appointed by the
President of City Council; and
(8) Two (2) community representatives appointed on a project-specific
basis by the City Council member in
whose ward a public art project has
been proposed. In addition, the Council member, at his or her discretion,
may appoint a member of a local
design review commission to the Public Art Committee, also on a projectspecific basis.
(d) Committee Members Terms of
Appointment. The term for members
of the Public Art Committee shall be
two (2) years, except that the initial
Committee members described in (2),
(4) and (6) of division (c) of this section shall have a one (1) year term.
After that one (1) year term, the term
for the Committee members described
in (2), (4) and (6) of division (c) of
this section shall be two (2) years.
The appointments made pursuant to
(8) of division (c) of this section,
shall not have a term, but shall serve
on the Committee only for the duration of deliberations on the particular
public art project for which they were
appointed.
(e) Committee Meetings. The Public Art Committee shall meet at least
quarterly, except when there is no
business to conduct, and may meet
more frequently to consider specific
projects or other matters as may be
necessary. The meetings shall be conducted under rules and procedures
adopted by the Committee and
approved by the City Planning Commission.
(f) Committee Member Compensation. Members of the Public Art Committee shall not receive monetary
compensation for their services to the
Committee.

ods include open competition and
invitational competition.
(4) Submission Options. The Committee shall recommend to the City
Planning Commission submission
requirements for each public art project.
(5) Approval. The Public Art Committee shall make its recommendation for a public art project to the City
Planning Commission or Landmarks
Commission, as applicable, which
shall make the final determination.
Alternatively, the Committee or the
Commission may choose to make no
selection and to re-open the competition. The Public Art Committee’s recommendation to the City Planning
Commission or Landmarks Commission shall substitute for the otherwise
applicable design review advisory
committee recommendation to the
Commission.
(b) Selection Criteria. In selecting
artwork, the Public Art Committee
and the City Planning Commission
shall consider, among others, the following factors: artistic quality, appropriateness of the artwork to its context, durability and resistance to the
environment and vandalism, safety,
feasibility of implementation, and the
contribution the art makes to a citywide public art collection that
reflects the diversity of the community and a diversity of forms of artistic
expression.
(c) Representation of Local Artists.
It is the intent of the City that at least
fifty percent (50%) of the art
installed under this chapter be created by artists living or working in the
City of Cleveland. Achievement of
this goal shall be measured in five (5)
year increments.
Section 2. That existing Sections
186.02, 186.03, 186.04 and 186.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1356-03, passed November 17, 2003,
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Section 186.05 Selection of Art
(a) Selection Process. The City
Planning Commission, through its
Public Art Committee shall solicit,
review and select artwork according
to the following provisions:
(1) Community Participation. The
Public Art Committee shall engage
local residents, other local stakeholders, and the local City Council member in the process of selecting public
art for a particular location. As
required in Section 186.04, two (2)
community representatives appointed
by the local Council member shall be
added to the Committee as voting
members for the purpose of project
selection.
(2) Project Concept. The Committee
shall work with the applicable
department and the project design
team to establish the goals for each
public art project, including suitable
locations and appropriate formats.
(3) Selection Method. The Committee shall recommend to the City Planning Commission the most appropriate method of selecting each public
art project. Possible selection meth-

Ord. No. 532-13.
By Council Members Zone, Mitchell,
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 187.04, 187.06, 187.12, 187.14,
and 187A.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 77-08,
passed February 4, 2008, relating to
the Cleveland Area Business Code
and Ordinance No. 1660-A-09, passed
March 29, 2010, relating to the Local
Producer, Local-Food Purchaser, and
Business
Preference
Sustainable
Code.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 187.04,
187.06, 187.12, and 187.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 7708, passed February 4, 2008, are
amended to read as follows:

930

May 22, 2013
Section 187.04 CSB Goals of Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of CSB participation in Contracts, each Contracting
Department shall use its best efforts
to utilize CSBs as Contractors and
subcontractors for all contracts in
excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). The annual City-wide
goal for CSB participation in Public
Improvement Contracts shall be thirty percent (30%), in professional services Contracts shall be ten percent
(10%), and in all other Contracts
shall be twenty percent (20%) or such
other goal fixed by the Director for a
particular Contract.
(b) To meet the goals fixed under
division (a) of this section, Contracting Departments, in consultation
with the Director, shall consider use
of Bid Discounts under division (b)
and (d) of Section 187.03 when recommending a bid as lowest and best or
lowest responsible or recommending
a proposal as best. Each Contracting
Department shall be responsible for
ensuring that invitations to bid or
requests for proposal issued by or for
that department comply with all provisions and procedures set forth in
this chapter.
(c) In determining the CSB participation that shall be applied toward
meeting the goals fixed under division (a) of this section, the Director
shall credit:
(1) Expenditures to CSBs that perform Commercially Useful Functions
in implementation or performance of
a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to CSB manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce
goods from raw materials or the product of raw materials and add value by
substantially altering them before
resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to CSB Suppliers that are not
manufacturers, provided that the CSB
Supplier performs a Commercially
Useful Function in the supply
process;
(4) Should a CSB subcontractor further subcontract its participation in a
Contract to a non-CSB subcontractor,
only the work or supplies actually
performed or furnished by the CSB
be
applied
subcontractor
shall
towards meeting the goals fixed
under division (a) of this section;
(5) No credit shall apply for a Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s contract(s) for the purchase of materials,
equipment, services, or supplies that
are incident to the performance of services under the Contract or for the
general operation of its business and
not attributable exclusively to the
particular subcontract; and
(6) A percentage of the total dollar
value of the Contract with a CSB Joint
Venture equal to the percentage of
CSB participation in the Joint Venture shall be counted towards meeting the goals fixed under division (a)
of this section. If the CSB is responsible for performance of a clearly
defined portion of the work to be performed, equal in proportion to its
share in the ownership, control, management, responsibility, risk, and
profits of the Joint Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
goals fixed under division (a) of this
section, Contractors shall use CSBs to
perform a Commercially Useful Function during the implementation or
performance of the Contract. Failure
to do so will be a material breach of

May 22, 2013
the Contract, and may subject the
Contractor to criminal prosecution,
decertification, and other sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the CSB subcontractor
participation goals fixed in division
(a) of this section for participation
under any Contract in a calendar year
by any CSB subcontractor that has
contracted under a City contract more
than a maximum annual dollar
amount per year fixed by the Director
in the Regulations from time to time,
except that the Director may apply
credit toward the CSB subcontractor
participation goals upon written
request of a Bidder or Contractor
attesting that no other certified CSBs
are available to perform the work or
supply the materials required for the
Contract under which the CSB is a
subcontractor, or in an emergency, or
for such other reasons that the Director determines require use of that
CSB. Nothing in the foregoing shall be
deemed to prohibit a Contractor from
subcontracting to that CSB, or that
CSB from performing work or supplying materials under any Contract
without participation credit.
Section 187.06 MBE/FBE Goals of
Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of MBE and
FBE participation in City Contracts
when past or present discrimination
against such type of MBEs or FBEs or
category of contract has been evidenced as provided in Section 187.28,
each Contracting Department shall
use its best efforts to utilize certified
MBEs and FBEs as Contractors or
subcontractors for all contracts in
excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) where applicable. The
Director may determine the appropriate annual City- wide goals for MBE
and FBE participation for each type
of Contract, including, but not limited
to, Construction, non-professional and
professional services, supplies, and
concessions, and for each type of
work to be performed under a particular Contract, based on the availability
of certified MBEs and FBEs as to
which past or present discrimination
has been demonstrated as provided in
Section 187.28. The Director shall
cause the goals to be published in the
Regulations.
The Director shall fix the goals for
MBE and FBE participation in a particular Contract in consultation with
the Contracting Department based
upon the annual City-wide goals for
each type of Contract and for each
type of work to be performed in the
Contract and the availability of certified MBEs and FBEs. The Director
may fix the goals for a particular Contract at a level exceeding the annual
City-wide goals to assist a Contracting Department in meeting the annual City- wide goal for the particular
type of Contract to be awarded.
(b) Contracting Departments shall
consider use of certified MBEs and
FBEs when recommending a lowest
and best or lowest responsible bid to
meet the specified annual goals and
may apply a Bid Discount for Bid
Comparison under division (c) of Section 187.05. However, these goals are
not intended as quotas. Each Contracting Department shall ensure
that bids or proposals emanating
from that department comply with the
procedures and provisions in this
chapter and the Regulations.

The City Record
(c) In evaluating the MBE and FBE
participation that shall apply toward
a Contracting Department’s annual
goals, the Director shall credit:
(1) Expenditures to certified MBEs
and FBEs that perform Commercially
Useful Functions in implementation
or performance of a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to certified MBE
and FBE manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce goods from raw
materials or the product of raw materials and add value by substantially
altering them before resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to certified MBE and FBE Suppliers that are not manufacturers,
provided that the MBE and FBE Supplier performs a Commercially Useful
Function in the supply process;
(4) Should a MBE or FBE subcontractor further subcontract its participation in a Contract to a non-MBE or
non-FBE only the work actually performed by the MBE or FBE subcontractor shall apply towards the Contracting Department’s annual MBE or
FBE participation goals;
(5) No credit shall apply to a Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s contract(s) for the purchase of materials,
equipment, services, or supplies that
are incident to the performance of services under the Contract or for the
general operation of its business and
not attributable exclusively to the
particular subcontract;
(6) A Contractor or subcontractor
that qualifies as both a MBE and FBE
may obtain certification as both a
MBE and FBE. The total dollar value
of a particular Contract with such
Contractor or subcontractor may
count only toward the MBE or FBE
goal, but not toward both. The Contractor must choose the category to
which the Contract value should be
applied; and
(7) A portion of the total dollar
value of the Contract with a CSB,
MBE, or FBE Joint Venture equal to
the percentage of certified CSB, MBE,
or FBE participation in the Joint Venture may count toward meeting MBE
and FBE goals. The CSB, MBE, or
FBE must be responsible for performance of a clearly defined, distinct
portion of the Contract work of equal
proportion to its share in the ownership, control, management, responsibility, risk, and profits of the Joint
Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
MBE and FBE goals, Contractors
shall use MBEs and FBEs to perform
a Commercially Useful Function in
implementation or performance of the
Contract. Failure to do so will not
only be considered a material breach
of the Contract, but may also subject
the Contractor to criminal prosecution for fraudulent misrepresentation, decertification, and to other
sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the MBE and FBE subcontractor participation goals fixed
under division (a) of this section for
participation under any Contract in a
calendar year by any one (1) MBE or
FBE subcontractor that has contracted under a City contract more than a
maximum annual dollar amount per
MBE or FBE per year fixed by the
Director in the Regulations from time
to time, except that the Director may
apply credit toward the MBE or FBE
subcontractor participation goals
upon written request of a Bidder or

931

43
Contractor attesting that no other certified MBEs or FBEs are available to
perform the work or supply the materials required for the Contract under
which the MBE or FBE is a subcontractor, or in an emergency, or for
such other reasons that the Director
determines require use of that MBE or
FBE. Nothing in the foregoing shall
be deemed to prohibit a Contractor
from subcontracting to that MBE or
FBE, or that MBE or FBE from performing work or supplying materials
under any Contract without participation credit.
(f) This section shall apply, as
remedial action, only to the specified
types and categories of Contracts and
the contracting for those types and
categories of Contracts, for which the
City has developed or obtained, by
disparity study or otherwise, a legally sufficient basis in evidence to
demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of Minority
Persons, Females, MBEs, or FBEs.
Section 187.12 Responsibilities of
Contracting Departments
The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies and each Contracting
Department shall:
(a) Endeavor to maximize the participation of CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs
in Contracts of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) or less;
(b) Develop lists of CSBs, MBEs,
and FBEs experienced in the various
types of services, products, or property for which the City typically contracts;
(c) Report to the Director quarterly
not later than thirty (30) calendar
days after the end of the previous
quarter specifying, with respect to
Contracts and subcontracts:
(1) The means by which it intends
to meet goals established under this
chapter in the forthcoming quarter;
(2) The percentage and dollar
amount of those Contracts and subcontracts awarded in the previous
quarter to CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs;
(3) For each Contracting Department, the degree to which it has met
goals set forth in this chapter, any
past and current activities undertaken and being undertaken to meet such
goals and, if applicable, a detailed
explanation of why it has not met the
goals; and
(4) Other information as the Director may request; and
(d) Appoint one (1) or more members of each Contracting Department
to serve as a liaison between the Contracting Department and the OEO,
and to nominate a member of the contracting department or division to
serve on the Review and Evaluation
Committee provided under Section
187.23.
Section 187.14 Small Contract Rotation Program
(a) Provided that a disparity study
or otherwise establishes a legally sufficient basis to employ a Small Contract Rotation Program as a remedy
for past or present discrimination
under Section 187.28, the Director
shall establish a Small Contract Rotation Program for MBEs and FBEs,
including procedures, applicable to
the categories of construction, professional services and purchase contracts where the cost of the Contract
is anticipated to be under fifty thou-

44
sand dollars ($50,000.00). The purposes of the Small Contract Rotation Program are to increase contract opportunities for categories of MBEs and
FBEs, that have been underutilized at
a statistically significant level in
Contracts under fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), to provide an orderly
and efficient method of awarding purchases and work, and to equitably distribute purchases and work among
qualified Contractors.
(b) Under the Small Contract Rotation Program, the City shall limit
every second contract to be let by the
City for each type of contract, within
a category where MBEs and FBEs are
underutilized at a statistically significant level, to competition among certified MBEs and FBEs who submit an
application in a form acceptable to
the Director. The Director shall compile an approved list comprised of not
less than two (2) certified MBEs and
FBEs for each industry and, as needed, compile specialized lists within
industries. The eligible businesses
shall be alphabetically ranked on
each list and, for a thirty (30) day
period commencing on January 1st
and June 1st of each year, the Director shall hold open enrollment for
applicants. The lists of prequalified
vendors shall be made available to
the public. The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies shall solicit bids
or proposals from all MBEs or FBEs
on the list for each contract to be
entered into under the Small Contract
Rotation Program. When only one (1)
qualified vendor is on the list, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies may purchase directly from that
firm by direct negotiation of the purchase price.
Section 2. That existing Sections
187.04, 187.06, 187.12, and 187.14 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance
No. 77-08, passed February 4, 2008, are
repealed.
Section 3. That Section 187A.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1660-A-09, passed March 29, 2010, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 187A.05 Responsibilities of
Commissioner
and
Contracting
Departments
The Commissioner and each Contracting Department shall:
(a) Endeavor to maximize the purchase of Local Producers, Local-Food
Purchasers, and Local Sustainable
Businesses goods, materials, supplies, or services in Contracts of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or less;
and
(b)Develop lists of Local Producers, Local-Food Purchasers, and Local
Sustainable Businesses for whose
goods, materials, supplies, or services
the City typically contracts.
Section 4. That existing Section
187A.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1660-A-09, passed
March 29, 2010, is repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

The City Record
Ord. No. 534-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Public Works
and Finance to enter into one or
more contracts with the Cleveland
Metropolitan School District to conduct
recreational,
cultural,
and
extracurricular programs for the
benefit of school children during the
2012-13 school year.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995, tax
revenues from levying the parking
facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admission tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural, and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2012-13
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports, and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Public Works and Finance are
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct
various recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs for the
benefit of City school children during the 2012-13 school year, under
the program description contained
in File No. 534-13-A, The cost of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
not
exceed $1,000,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 11 SF 035, Request
No. RQS 7001, RL 2013-20.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 563-13.
By
Council
Members
Pruitt,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 531.56 and 533.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended and enacted by
various
ordinances,
relating
to
inspection, approval and repair of
fixtures
and
general
provisions
regarding water service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

932

May 22, 2013
Section 1. That Section 531.56 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordnance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924, and Section 533.01 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 462-11, passed May 23, 2011, are
amended to read as follows:
Section 531.56 Inspection, Approval
and Repair of Fixtures
(a) All stop cocks or valves and all
other fixtures used on any service
pipe shall be subject to the inspection
and approval of the Commissioner of
Water, and must be repaired or
changed promptly when so ordered by
the Commissioner.
(b) At the Director’s discretion and
in order to prevent waste or to protect
the integrity of the water system, the
Division may, at its expense, perform
ancillary plumbing service to the service pipe or connected fixtures in the
building when replacing or installing
a meter or stop cock pursuant to a
Division-sponsored system improvement.
Section 533.01 General Provisions
(a) All Connections.
(1) All water service connections
and service pipes from water distribution mains supplied with water by the
City shall be metered by a water
meter, except connections for construction purposes or fire protection.
(2) Metering devices shall be supplied by the Division of Water, and
shall remain the property of the City.
(3) Charges for metering devices
and their installation and/or replacement shall be under Section 535.06 of
the Codified Ordinances.
(4) Charges for metering devices
supplied by the City and for their
installation by the City shall be borne
by the owner of or the person applying for water service to the premises.
(5) Excepting private re-registering and sewer-exempt meters, the following apply:
A. Metering devices shall be
replaced and/or repaired by and at
the expense of the Division; and
B. At the Director’s discretion,
ancillary plumbing repair, for the service pipe or connected fixtures in the
building, necessary for the replacement or installation of a meter or for
the purpose of a Division-sponsored
system improvement, may be performed by and at the expense of the
Division pursuant to the rules and
regulations by the Director.
(b) New Connections.
(1) All new service connections and
service pipes from all water distribution mains supplied with water by the
City shall be metered by a water
meter pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Division of Water.
(2) When vaults are required, they
shall be furnished by the owner or
customer and approved by the Commissioner. Vaults shall be installed
by the owner or customer in strict conformity with the rules and regulations of the Department of Public Utilities.
(3) Once access to domestic water is
established, but prior to a meter being
installed, water consumption shall be
estimated and billed at the amounts
shown in the table below, at the
applicable service district rates
where the premise is located.

The City Record

May 22, 2013
Connection (Size)

Daily MCF
to be Billed

5/8 in.

0.04

3/4 in.

0.04

1 in.

0.05

1-1/2 in.

0.25

2 in.

0.43

3 in.

1.15

4 in.

2.45

6 in.

7.36

8 in.

13.13

10 in.

20.00

12 in.

25.65

45

(c) Existing Connections.
(1) Meters on existing service connections and service pipes shall be
replaced on request of the owner or
when deemed necessary by the Commissioner, subject to approval by the
Director, to prevent waste or to protect the integrity of the water system
or to continue the policy of metering
all consumers, pursuant to rules and
regulations by the Commissioner,
subject to approval by the Director.
(2) Replacement, repair and maintenance of metering devices shall be
performed only by authorized employees of the Division or by other authorized representatives of the Division.
(3) Charges for installation and/or
replacement of metering devices may
be prorated on the water bill for a
period of not more than four (4) years
or may be paid in a lump sum.
(d) Rules and Regulations. The
Director shall make and amend written rules and regulations necessary

to effectuate the provisions of this
chapter. The rules and regulations
shall not conflict with nor waive any
provisions of these Codified Ordinances.
Section 2. That existing Section
531.56 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 634-10-A, passed September 22, 1924, and Section 533.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 462-11, passed May 23, 2011, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 564-13.
By Council Members Pruitt, Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 535.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 462-11, passed May 23, 2011, relating to fees and charges.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 535.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
462-11, passed May 23, 2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 535.06
Fees and Charges
(a) New Connections (Taps, Fire Supply) (Ductile Iron Prices).

1 in.
1-1/2 in.
2 in.
3 in.
4 in.
6 in.
8 in.
10 in.
12 in.

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$299
$1,430
$1,551
$1,560
$1,990
$2,094
$2,355
$2,804
$3,925

$310
$1,479
$1,604
$1,614
$2,059
$2,165
$2,436
$2,900
$4,060

$320
$1,527
$1,656
$1,666
$2,126
$2,236
$2,515
$2,994
$4,191

$332
$1,587
$1,721
$1,732
$2,209
$2,323
$2,613
$3,111
$4,355

$342
$1,636
$1,775
$1,785
$2,277
$2,396
$2,695
$3,208
$4,491

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$144
$144
$287
$287
$287
$287
$431
$431

$149
$149
$297
$297
$297
$297
$446
$446

$153
$153
$307
$307
$307
$307
$460
$460

$159
$159
$319
$319
$319
$319
$478
$478

$164
$164
$329
$329
$329
$329
$493
$493

For concrete pipe add 55% surcharge
(b) Curb Valves (Flat Rate Labor Only).

1-1/2 in.
2 in.
3 in.
4 in.
6 in.
8 in.
10 in.
12 in.

(c) Tapping Sleeve and Valve (For Tying New Main to Existing Main).

8 in. or less
10 in.
12 in.
16 in. or greater
(deposit + cost)

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$2,355
$2,804
$3,925

$2,436
$2,900
$4,060

$2,515
$2,994
$4,191

$2,613
$3,111
$4,355

$2,695
$3,208
$4,491

$5,011

$5,243

$5,484

$5,745

$6,008

For concrete pipe add 55% surcharge

933

The City Record

46

May 22, 2013

(d) Plugging Connections (Fee Only Includes Actual Plugging of Connection; Excavation and Restoration Will
Be Invoiced at Cost).

<2 in.
2 in. - 12 in.
>12 in.

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$1,599
$2,132
$2,665

$1,675
$2,232
$2,790

$1,753
$2,337
$2,921

$1,837
$2,449
$3,061

$1,923
$2,563
$3,203

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$157
$470
$470
$470
$618
$812
$1,027
$1,293
$1,582

$162
$486
$486
$486
$639
$840
$1,063
$1,338
$1,636

$167
$502
$502
$502
$660
$868
$1,097
$1,381
$1,689

$174
$522
$522
$522
$686
$902
$1,140
$1,435
$1,755

$179
$538
$538
$538
$707
$930
$1,176
$1,480
$1,810

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$191

$251

$258

$296

$307

$235
$224

$297
$286

$305
$293

$344
$333

$358
$345

$275
$281
$780
$1,387
$2,983
$5,005
$5,959
$8,341
$1,779
$2,171
$2,562
$4,413
$7,017
$8,355
$11,695

$339
$366
$883
$1,511
$3,162
$5,253
$6,239
$8,704
$1,948
$2,375
$2,780
$4,695
$7,388
$8,771
$12,226

$348
$376
$909
$1,558
$3,262
$5,421
$6,439
$8,984
$2,007
$2,448
$2,866
$4,843
$7,623
$9,052
$12,619

$390
$417
$972
$1,645
$3,416
$5,659
$6,718
$9,362
$2,141
$2,599
$3,033
$5,087
$7,976
$9,460
$13,167

$404
$432
$1,004
$1,698
$3,524
$5,838
$6,929
$9,655
$2,213
$2,684
$3,131
$5,250
$8,229
$9,759
$13,581

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$2,478
$4,131

$2,566
$4,275

$2,655
$4,425

$2,748
$4,580

$2,845
$4,740

(e) Meter Settings.

1 in. or smaller
1-1/2 in.
2 in.
3 in.
4 in.
6 in.
8 in.
10 in.
12 in.
(f) Install/Replace Meters.

1 in. or smaller vault setting
1 in. or smaller - inside
setting w/ remote
reading device
1 in. - vault setting
1 in. - inside setting
w/ remote reading
device
2 in.
3 in.
4 in.
6 in.
8 in.
10 in.
12 in.
2 in. compound
3 in. compound
4 in. compound
6 in. compound
8 in. compound
10 in. compound
12 in. compound
(g) Regulators.

8 in. (cost plus)
12 in. (cost plus)

(h) Water Use from Hydrants and Other Unmetered Sources.

Permit
Volume Charge
($/MCF/service area)

Meter/Valve/BF
Assembly Refundable
Deposit
Meter Rental Fee

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$40

$42

$44

$46

$48

Charged at additional MCF rate in applicable rate district
where hydrant is located

$1,125

$1,150

$1,175

$1,200

$35 1st wk;
$25/wk after

$35 1st wk;
$25/wk after

$35 1st wk;
$25/wk after

$35 1st wk;
$25/wk after

934

$1,225
$35 1st wk;
$25/wk after

The City Record

May 22, 2013

47

(i) Miscellaneous Engineering Services.
2011
Copy fee for roll maps,
engineering dwgs. per sq. ft
$0.30
Plan reviews - per plan &
profile dwg.* containing
water work
$500
As-built creation refundable deposit per plan & profile dwg.*
containing water work
$500
As-built processing fee per plan profile dwg.*
containing water work
Hard or paper copier - per dwg. $250
AutoCad format - per dwg.
$100
GIS format per CWD stds. per dwg.
$25
Plumber certification
$44
Backflow prevention testing
fee - CWD processing fee
$5
Backflow prevention testing
fee - vendor processing fee
$9.95

2012

2013

2014

2015

$0.32

$0.34

$0.36

$0.38

$510

$520

$530

$540

$500

$500

$500

$500

$250
$100

$250
$100

$250
$100

$250
$100

$25
$46

$25
$47

$25
$49

$25
$51

$6

$7

$8

$9

$9.95

$9.95

$9.95

$9.95

* D-size drawing
(j) Disinfection of Water Mains.
2011
charges for min.
per ft.
services:
charges charge*
4" diameter
6"
8"
10"
12"
16"
20" or
greater
(deposit
+ cost)
invoiced
at actual
cost

$660
$660
$840
$840
$1,032
$1,140

$0.55
$0.55
$0.70
$0.70
$0.86
$0.95

$3,200
deposit,
invoiced
at actual
cost

2012
min.
charges

2013

per ft.
charge*

$684
$684
$888
$888
$1,080
$1,188

$0.57
$0.57
$0.74
$0.74
$0.90
$0.99

min.
charges

per ft.
charge*

min.
charges

$0.60
$0.60
$0.78
$0.78
$0.95
$1.04

$756
$756
$972
$972
$1,200
$1,308

$720
$720
$936
$936
$1,140
$1,248

$3,300
deposit,
invoiced
at actual
cost

2014

$3,400
deposit,
invoiced
at actual
cost

per ft.
charge*
$0.63
$0.63
$0.81
$0.81
$1.00
$1.09

2015
min.
charges

per ft.
charge*

$792
$792
$1,032
$1,032
$1,260
$1,380

$0.66
$0.66
$0.86
$0.86
$1.05
$1.15

$3,500
deposit,
invoiced
at actual
cost

$3,600
deposit,
invoiced
at actual
cost

$380

$390

* per ft. charge applies only when the minimum is exceeded
Come
Back
Fee

$350

$360

$370

(k) Meter Test at Customer’s Request (Red Tag, Flow Test).

1 in. or less
1 in. to 4 in.
Over 4 in.

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$52
$106
$210

$54
$110
$218

$56
$113
$225

$58
$118
$234

$60
$121
$241

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$1.47

$1.54

$1.62

$1.70

$1.79

$32.00

$32.00

$32.00

(l) Manual Meter Read; Re-registering Meters.

($/read)
($/read/post AMR
meter option*)

* Fee applies where, at the Director’s discretion, customer opts out of an AMR meter/endpoint and thereafter
requests a manual meter read.

935

The City Record

48

May 22, 2013

(m) Special Service Calls by Customer Request.
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$18

$19

$20

$21

$22

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$29

$30

$31

$32

$33

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$30

$31

$32

$33

$34

(n) Charge for Appointment Broken by Customer.

(o) Returned Checks.

(p) (1) Quarterly Flat Rate for Unmetered Fire Line Service.

1-1/2 in.
2 in.
3 in.
4 in.
6 in.
8 in.
10 in.
12 in.

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$41.57
$41.57
$41.57
$113.08
$162.96
$291.00
$455.62
$621.91

$43.45
$43.45
$43.45
$118.20
$170.34
$304.17
$476.24
$650.06

$43.93
$43.93
$43.93
$119.51
$172.23
$307.55
$481.53
$657.28

$44.56
$44.56
$44.56
$121.23
$174.70
$311.96
$488.44
$666.71

$46.27
$46.27
$46.27
$125.87
$181.39
$323.91
$507.15
$692.25

(2) Monthly Flat Rate for Unmetered Fire Line Service.
Connection Size
1-1/2 in.
2 in.
3 in.
4 in.
6 in.
8 in.
10 in.
12 in.

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$13.86
$13.86
$13.86
$37.69
$54.32
$97.00
$151.87
$207.30

$14.48
$14.48
$14.48
$39.40
$56.78
$101.89
$158.75
$216.69

$14.64
$14.64
$14.64
$39.84
$57.41
$102.52
$160.51
$219.09

$14.85
$14.85
$14.85
$40.41
$58.23
$103.99
$162.81
$222.24

$15.42
$15.42
$15.42
$41.96
$60.46
$107.97
$169.05
$230.75

(q) All fees and charges shall be effective on January 1 of each year, except for 2011 which shall be effective
July 16, 2011.
(r) The Commissioner may enter into payment arrangements for installment payments of the fees and charges
contained in this section or in Section 535.23 when determined to be reasonable by the Commissioner. Failure to
make any payment under an arranged payment plan when due shall cause the total unpaid amount to become
payable on demand and may lead to termination of water service.
Section 2. That existing Section 535.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 462-11, passed May 23, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 565-13.
By
Council
Members
Pruitt,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 535.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 284-A-88,
passed February 6, 1989, relating to
termination for nonpayment; notice.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 535.16 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by

Ordinance No. 284-A-88, passed February 6, 1989, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 535.16 Termination for Nonpayment of Water or Waste Water
Bill; Notice
Water service may be terminated at
any premises where any water or
waste water bill remains unpaid after
the date payment is due, subject to
the following:
(a) The Division of Water shall
send to the account holder a notice of
termination of service at least fifteen
(15) days prior to such termination;
(b) Where the Division of Water
has reason to believe that the premises where service is to be terminated is
occupied by residential tenants, the

936

Division shall provide at least thirty
(30) days’ notice to any such tenants
by mail or by posting a notice of termination on all accessible building
entrances and, where possible, at the
door of each dwelling unit. The notice
shall inform the tenants of the remedies available to them under Section
535.14 of this chapter.
Except as provided in Section
535.14, water service at a premises terminated for nonpayment shall not be
restored until all charges due and
payable have been paid, whether or
not there has been in the meantime a
change of ownership or possession of
the premises supplied.
Section 2. That existing Section
535.16 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by

May 22, 2013
Ordinance No. 284-A-88, passed February 6, 1989, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 569-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of wildlife
bird exclusion systems, including
installation and maintenance, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a two year period, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of wildlife bird exclusion systems,
including
installation
and
maintenance, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Port Control without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2013,12)

The City Record
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 599-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Cities Readiness Initiative Program; authorizing one or more contracts with the Cuyahoga County
Board of Health; and authorizing
the purchase or lease of television
and radio advertising time and other
media.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $562,368, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Department of Health
to conduct the Cities Readiness Initiative (“CRI”) Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 599-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Health may

937

49
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process. The contracts will be
paid from the fund or funds to which
are credited any grant funds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with the Cuyahoga County Board of Health to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the purchase or lease, during the grant term,
of television and radio advertising
time and other media, for the Department of Public Health.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 600-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
Services for the 2012 Ohio Drug Law
Enforcement Fund Grant; and authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
needed to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $249,999.75,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services to conduct the
2012 Ohio Drug Law Enforcement
Fund Grant; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
application for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 600-13-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the amount of $83,333.25 from Fund
Nos. 10 SF 025, 10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049,

50
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority. (RQS 6001, RL
2013-58)
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the contract or contracts shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the grant
proceeds accepted under this ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 601-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy
programs, fair housing, and administrative costs to implement the programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That CDBG funds in the
amount of $186,000 are appropriated
for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy programs, fair housing,
and administrative costs to implement the programs.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
various organizations to provide
counseling, training, marketing, program evaluation and other services
required for anti-predatory lending
and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy, fair housing
activities and to expend funds for
administrative costs to implement the
programs.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts and administrative
costs shall not exceed $186,000 and
shall be paid from Fund 14 SF 039,
Request No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-64.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 602-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for administrative expenses of the Code Enforcement Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 39 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $419,000, from Fund No.
14 SF 039, RQS 8006, RL 2013-61, are
appropriated for the reimbursement
of administrative expenses of the
Code Enforcement Program following the appropriate federal regulations for the Department of Building and Housing, in conjunction
with the Community Development
Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Building and Housing and the
Director of Community Development
shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding for this program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

938

May 22, 2013
Ord. No. 603-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community garden program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
one or more non-profit agencies to
operate a community gardening program.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$129,400, and shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 14 SF 039, Request No. RQS 8006,
RL 2013-65.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 604-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Demolition Program and emergency contracts under the Board-up
Program; authorizing the Director of
Building and Housing to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies to implement these programs; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts for the items of labor and
materials necessary to implement
the Board-up Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $780,800 from Fund No. 14
SF 039, RQS 8006, RL 2013-59, are
appropriated for costs of the Department of Building and Housing associated with conducting the Demolition
and
Board-up
Programs
incurred in Fund 19 following the
appropriate federal regulations in
conjunction with the Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit
agencies and entities for services necessary to implement the Demolition
Program and emergency contracts
under the Board-up Program.
Section 3. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

May 22, 2013
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a
one or two year period for the items of
labor and materials necessary to
implement the Board-up Program, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Building
and Housing. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance, a
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Building and
Housing by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 5. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Building and Housing and the
Director of Community Development
shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding for this program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to accept monies in repayment under
the program and to utilize the repayments and other program income in a
revolving fund for making additional
expenditures under this program, and
the funds are appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to collect from persons or entities
from whom the City is collecting
demolition costs an amount equal to
any amount spent for services related
to collection of demolition cost, such
as title searches, credit bureau
reports, and document filing fees.
Any funds collected shall be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 605-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant and HOME funds for
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development.

The City Record
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Community Development Block Grant, Year 39 funds
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $4,287,200 from Fund No.
14 SF 039 and HOME funds in the
amount of $370,000 from Fund No. 19
SF 670 are appropriated for the
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development under the following schedule:
Personnel
Other

$4,321,000
336,200

Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds and enter into contracts
for reimbursement of non-profit subrecipients for the cost of audit and
other professional services.
Section 3. That the costs of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 039
and Fund No. 19 SF 670.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 606-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for
the operation of programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”), Year 39
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
39 Community Development Block
Grant Plan which committed funds
to Neighborhood Development Activities (“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible activities proposed by the various Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
after
Community
Development,

939

51
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations, non-profit corporations, private for-profit entities,
State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority,
Cleveland
Municipal
School District, Regional Transit
Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional
District,
Cleveland
Sewer
Metroparks, and such other governmental entities as defined under the
Ohio Revised Code to implement
activities and programs that are eligible under the Community Development Block Grant CDBG Program
and are consistent with the City’s
Community Development objectives
and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to enter into or
amend memorandums of understanding with various City departments to
implement activities and programs
that are eligible under the CDBG Program and are consistent with the
City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to expend NDA
funds for any CDBG eligible Programs administered by the Department of Community Development
including entering into contract with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director of
Community
Development
shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line item
is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for such activity or program does not exceed the
amount allocated for the Council
member’s ward pursuant to the relevant Community Development Block
Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $7,600,000.00 and any
prior years NDA balances and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 037, 14 SF
038, and 14 SF 039.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program that
generated program income in an
amount not to exceed that generated
program income and to expend funds
for the programs administered by the
Department of Community Development that generated program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of

52
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees and to
expend such fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of loan
documents, closing, and servicing
costs. Such fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 608-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds and Emergency
Solutions Grant funds for expenses
of the Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), CHORE,
and Homeless Services Programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 39, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Two Hundred Eighty
Thousand Dollars ($280,000) from
Fund No. 14 SF 039 are appropriated for costs of the Department of
Aging incurred in Fund 19 associated with conducting the Senior Homeowners
Assistance
Program
(“SHAP”), and CHORE in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant Program. (RQS
8006, RL 2013-63)
Section 2. That Emergency Solutions Grant funds in the amount of
Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000)
from Fund No. 19 SF 671 are appropriated for costs of the Department of
Aging incurred in Fund 19 associated
with conducting the Homeless Services Program. (RQS 8006, RL 201363)
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Aging and the Director of Community Development shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding for
this program.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

The City Record
Ord. No. 609-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into amendments to
Contract No. 35112, as amended, with
Eliza Bryant Village, formerly Eliza
Bryant Center, to accept discount
prepayments of
its
UDAG
loan
regarding acquisition of land and
construction of a nursing care facility and senior center at 1380 Addison Road.
Whereas, the current owners of
the Eliza Bryant Village, formerly
(“Eliza
Eliza
Bryant
Center
Bryant”), have requested the opportunity to prepay the $565,390, four
percent (4 %) interest loan (Contract No. 35112, as amended) at its
net present value determined by discounting by a rate of nine and seventy-five percent (9.75%) the principal payment no later than July 31,
2013; and
Whereas, this ordinance allows
the Department of Economic Development to use the lump sum repayments for other City programs or
neighborhood housing projects in
need of financial assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property
and welfare, in that its enactment is
a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate assistance to create
and preserve job opportunities and
advance and promote commercial
and economic development in the
City of Cleveland, now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 35112, as amended, with
Eliza Bryant, to accept a discounted prepayment of the UDAG loan.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept on behalf of the City, a discounted prepayment from Eliza
Bryant to be paid to the City, in an
amount equal to the net present value
of the loan using a discount rate
equal to nine and seventy-five percent
(9.75%) in full satisfaction of its loan
of $565,390 due no later than July 31,
2013, which loan originally was made
to partially finance the acquisition of
land and construction of a nursing
care facility and senior center at 1380
Addison Road. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the prepayment.
Section 3. That the amendments
authorized by this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain terms and conditions
that the director deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
release any and all collateral taken to
secure repayments of the UDAG loan
and to execute all documents necessary to release the collateral of the
loan. Any release of security instruments shall be prepared and approved
by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
deposit the prepayments into Fund
No. 17 SF 006.

940

May 22, 2013
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 610-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. to provide technical
training and development content in
support of employee performance
and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems,
Inc. to provide technical training
and development content in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 for an additional year, with Adacel Systems
Inc. to provide technical training
and development content in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to
exercise this option. The cost of the
contract shall not exceed $17,701 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 60 SF
001, Request No. 3001, RL 2013-46.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 611-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise the second option to
renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with

May 22, 2013
Big Wireless, LLC to provide level
3 technical support and preventive
maintenance for wireless equipment
under this contract, including cable
and connectors.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 679-11, passed June 6,
2011, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. PS 2011-200
with Big Wireless, LLC to provide
level 3 technical support and preventive maintenance for wireless
equipment
under
this
contract,
including cable and connectors; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 679-11
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to
renew on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-200 for an additional year in the amount of $83,000
with Big Wireless, LLC to provide
level 3 technical support and preventive maintenance for wireless
equipment
under
this
contract,
including
cable
and
connectors.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 679-11 to exercise
this option. (RQS 2002, RL 2013-40)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

The City Record
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 612-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Revenue Assistance Corporation, or their designee, to provide economic development assistance as an incentive to relocate to
4780 Hinckley Parkway in the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Revenue Assistance Corporation, or their designee, to provide economic development assistance as an incentive to relocate to

53
4780 Hinckley Parkway in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$202,500.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, Request No. RQS
9501, RL 2013-55.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or circumstances
relate to the duties for the particular
job sought.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 613-13.
By Council Member Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 38, and 56 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as
amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following:
Section 38, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 172412, passed December 3, 2012, and
Section 56, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 610-12,
passed May 21, 2012, Ordinance No. 1537-12, passed November 12, 2012, and Ordinance No. 1701-12, passed December 3, 3012,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 38. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
12.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Administrative Manager ...........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission ........
Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation .......................
Chief-Systems Analysis .............................................................
Consulting Engineer ..................................................................
Harbor Manager ..........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications ...............
Manager of Education and Research .................................
Manager of Employee Relations ..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Minority Business Development Administrator ...............
Project Coordinator ....................................................................
Risk Manager...............................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations ..............
Water Business Plan Manager..............................................
Health Services Administrator...............................................

941

Minimum
27,193.55
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
36,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

Maximum
101,816.22
122,253.61
97,819.83
77,502.92
97,819.83
94,991.29
97,819.83
77,502.92
87,664.94
87,664.94
90,294.89
90,294.89
77,502.92
90,294.89
97,819.83
77,502.92
90,294.89
77,502.92

The City Record

54

May 22, 2013

Section 56. Division of Police; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be
fixed by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Forensic Video Specialist ........................................................
Crime Analyst I...........................................................................
Crime Analyst II.........................................................................
Crime Analyst III .......................................................................
Intelligence Analyst I...............................................................
Intelligence Analyst II .............................................................
Intelligence Analyst III ...........................................................
Occupational Medical Director ...............................................
Police Stress Consultant ..........................................................
Public Safety Information Technology Manager .........

Minimum
50,000.00
38,000.00
53,000.00
66,000.00
38,000.00
53,000.00
66,000.00
43,107.75
75,000.00
65,000.00

Maximum
75,000.00
52,000.00
65,000.00
80,000.00
52,000.00
65,000.00
80,000.00
$82,687.47
125,000.00
110,000.00

Section 2. That the existing following:
Section 38, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 172412, passed December 3, 2012, and
Section 56, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 610-12,
passed May 21, 2012, Ordinance No. 1537-12, passed November 12, 2012, and Ordinance No. 1701-12, passed December 3, 3012,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.
Ord. No. 617-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to develop and assist in
implementing
an
Integrated
Resources Plan for the various divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities, and to perform related services, including updates and support
for a period not to exceed two years
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew, the second of which requires
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to develop and
assist in implementing an Integrated Resources Plan (“IRP”) for the
various divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, and to perform
related services, including updates
and support for a period not to
exceed two years with three oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Utilities.
The first of the one-year options to
renew may be exercised by the
Director of Public Utilities, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council. The second of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional legislative authority is
granted and the second of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the third of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable

at the option of the Director of Public Utilities, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The IRP shall include,
but not be limited to, forecasting;
performing market analysis, reviewing current programs, evaluating
current supply, performing annual
reviews and making recommendations to ensure consistency with the
IRP and with industry changes, and
other services necessary to implement the IRP.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities will provide notification
to the Chair of the Public Utilities
Committee of the proposals submitted
by consultants and of the selected
consultant. The Director of Public
Utilities
will
provide
bi-annual
reports on the consultant’s activities
to the Chair of the Public Utilities
Committee.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001, 54 SF
001, 58 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2004,
RL 2013-92.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

942

Ord. No. 618-13.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to employ one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants to provide professional
services for pre-employment background and criminal checks for the
Department of Human Resources for
a one year period, with two one-year
options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to administer preemployment background and criminal records checks; and including
but not limited to automated national wanted felon checks; automated
motor vehicle license and points
checks; automated workers’ compensation
checks;
automated
social
security traces and automated credit checks for the Department of
Human Resources, for a one year
period, with two one-year options to
renew, the second of which requires
additional legislation.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Human Resources
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Human
Resources for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed by

May 22, 2013
the Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from 01-0402-6320, RQS 0402, RL
2013-44.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 619-13.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to employ one or more
professional consultants to administer the City’s employee assistance
program for a one year period, with
two one-year options to renew, the
second of which requires additional
legislation;
and
authorizing
a
month-to-month extension, not to
exceed three months, to Contract No.
CT-0402-PS 2011-270 with The Center
for Families and Children.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to administer the
City’s employee assistance program
for a one year period, with two oneyear options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislation
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Human Resources, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
extend the term of Contract No. CT0402 PS 2011-270 with The Center for
Families and Children, on a month-tomonth basis, not to exceed three
months, for employee assistance services through the Ease@Work program.
Section 3. That the cost of contract,
contracts, or extensions authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 01-04026320, RQS 0402, RL 2013-23.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 620-13.
By Council Members Zone, Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to employ one or more
professional consultants to administer the City’s COBRA program and
HIPAA compliance for a one year
period, with two one-year options to
renew, the second of which requires
additional legislation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to administer the
City’s COBRA program and HIPAA
compliance for a one year period,
with two one-year options to renew,
the second of which requires additional legislation.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Human Resources, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contracts shall be paid from Fund No. 010402, 6320, RQS 0402, RL 2013-43.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 646-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase,
lease or lease to purchase by
requirements contract of various
types of vehicles and apparatus for
various Divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others.

943

55
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirements contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of various types of vehicles and
apparatus described in the Vehicle
List placed in File No. 646-13-A, or
such other vehicle or apparatus in
substitution
thereof
as
may
be
approved by the Directors of Public
Works and Finance as replacement
vehicles or apparatus, in the estimated sum of $6,500,000, to be purchased, leased or leased to purchase
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
various Divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for a requirements contract for the
entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
or contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of any purchase or
procurement under the contract, each
of which purchases or procurement
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a delivery order against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the City may enter
into a lease-purchase arrangement
for the vehicles and apparatus with a
bank, leasing company or any other
organization that is not the manufacturer or vendor of the vehicles or
apparatus that submitted a bid for the
sale, lease or lease to purchase
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, provided that: (I) the Director
of Finance determines that it is in the
best interest of the City to enter into
that lease-purchase arrangement,
(II) the maximum term of any leasepurchase arrangement does not
exceed ten (10) years, (III) the aggregate principal obligation of the City
under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed $6,900,000, (IV)
if the lease-purchase arrangement
provides that the lease payments are
to have a principal component and an
interest component, the maximum
interest rate for the interest component does not exceed seven percent
(7%) per annum, (V) the obligations
of the City under that lease-purchase
arrangement for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2013 are subject to annual appropriations being
made by the City sufficient to pay the
lease payments and to meet the other
obligations of the City under that
lease-purchase arrangement in each
of these fiscal years, and (VI) the
obligations of the City thereunder for

56
the current fiscal year do not exceed
$800,000, which amount is hereby
appropriated for that purpose. The
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to sign and deliver, for and
on behalf of the City and in the Director’s official capacity, such written
agreements, certificates and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate in order to provide for that
lease-purchase arrangement under
the terms and conditions authorized
herein and containing such additional terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Finance and
the Director of Law. Those agreements may include a lease-purchase
agreement, an escrow agreement for
the deposit by the lessor of the purchase price of the vehicles and apparatus, acceptance certificates evidencing the City’s acceptance of the
vehicles from the vendors, and certificates as to insurance, tax compliance
and related matters necessary to
carry out the transaction. The leasepurchase arrangement may provide
that the lease payments are to have a
principal component and an interest
component and that the interest component is to be excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes. In that event, the Director of
Finance and other City officials, as
are
authorized
to
appropriate,
covenant on behalf of the City that
(A) the City will use and will restrict
the use of the vehicles and apparatus
leased by the City under the lease-purchase agreement and will use, and
will restrict the investment of, any
proceeds of the lease-purchase agreement in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
the lease-purchase agreement will
not constitute a private activity bond,
an arbitrage bond or a hedge bond
under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”), or be
treated other than as an obligation to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (B) the City will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest
component of the lease payments to
be and to remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes and the City will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion. In the event that the City enters
into such a lease-purchase arrangement, the Director of Public Works
may assign to the lessor under the
lease-purchase arrangement, or the
lessor’s designee, the rights of the
City under the contracts for purchase
of the vehicles and apparatus authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
The Director of Law, Clerk of Council
and other appropriate officials of the
City are authorized to sign and deliver any documents, certificates and
other instruments as the Director of
Law determines are necessary and
appropriate to carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance where adopted in open
meetings of this Council, and any of
its committees that resulted in such
formal action were in meetings open
to the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made

The City Record
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 654-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality;
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more contracts for various services, equipment and supplies, and contracts with various
agencies or entities necessary to
operate the Division of Air Quality;
determining the method of constructing, rehabilitating, renovating,
replacing, or otherwise improving
air monitoring sites and other similar structures on city-owned and
city-leased property; and authorizing
the director to enter into one or
more contracts to construct the
improvement to design it.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $2,880,362, and any other
funds that become available during
the grant term, from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality
in accordance with the purposes set
forth in the summary; that the
Director of Public Health is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 654-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the sum of $393,000 from Fund No.
01-5007-6397 in order to receive the
grant from the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, as a pass-through
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.

944

May 22, 2013
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
grant period of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, services, and
supplies needed as described in the
file, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Air Quality, Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the grant term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items during the
term of the grant: various types of
monitoring
equipment,
OEPArequired equipment and their associated parts, and other materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis, for the
Division of Air Quality, Department
of Public Health.
Section 6. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing,
or otherwise improving air monitoring sites and other similar structures
on City-owned and City-leased property (the “Improvement”), for the Division of Air Quality, Department of
Public Health, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant.

May 22, 2013
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with and make
payments to one or more various entities or agencies to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 11. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 12. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 13. That the payments and
cost of the contracts authorized IN
this ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 655-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Case Western Reserve University
for the CWRU Partnership Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $42,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Case Western Reserve University to conduct the CWRU Partnership Program; that the Director is

The City Record
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 655-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 656-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program; and to
enter into one or more contracts
with Executive Information Systems
LLC and Stata Corp. to acquire
license updates and any upgrades
for SAS, for a period not to exceed
the grant term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $182,538, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health to conduct the Public Health
Emergency Preparedness Program;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
administrative
summary
for
the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 656-13-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legisla-

945

57
tive authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Executive
Information Systems LLC and Stata
Corp. for the acquisition of one or
more
license
updates
and
any
upgrades for SAS, including but not
limited to installation, design, training, testing, technical support, server
components, integration software and
software maintenance for a period of
one year.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 657-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Title X Program; authorizing
the director to charge and accept
fees for this program; and to enter
into one or more agreements necessary for the City to receive payments from Medicare, Medicaid and
Medicaid HMO programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $500,000 and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from the Ohio Department of Health
to conduct the Title X Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all

58
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 657-13-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects, including the obligation to
devote program income from first and
third party billings.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary for
the City to receive payments from
Medicare, Medicaid and Medicaid
HMOs to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Health may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the grant
proceeds, the first and third party
billings, and from the Medicaid reimbursements accepted under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

The City Record
Ord. No. 661-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies or entities to
provide AIDS-related services, in
conjunction with the HOPWA Grant;
and authorizing the employment of
one or more professional consultants
to provide evaluation services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, as a Subrecipient
Grantee of CDBG funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies or entities, effective June 1,
2013, to provide AIDS-related services in conjunction with the Housing Opportunities for People With
AIDS (HOPWA) Grant Program,
under File No. 661-13-A. The sum of
not more than $27,500 is appropriated to the Department of Public
Health for administrative costs of
implementing the HOPWA program.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide evaluation services.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That any agency or entity
that receives funds under this ordinance shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided
by the consultant.
Section 4. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Directors of Public Health and the Director
of Community Development must
enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program under the
terms authorized by this legislation.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts and administrative
costs referred to in Section 1, authorized in this ordinance are appropriated for costs of the Department of Public Health incurred from Fund 19 following the appropriate federal regulations and shall not exceed $918,000
and prior years balances and shall be
paid from Fund No. 19 SF 672, Request
No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-67.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

946

May 22, 2013
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 662-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contracts with various
agencies or entities to provide AIDSrelated services; authorizing the
employment of one or more professional consultants to provide evaluation services; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, as a Subrecipient
Grantee of CDBG funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies or entities to provide HIV/AIDS
prevention
education
activities,
under the Community Development
Block Grant, File No. 662-13-A, and
in addition, the sum of not more
than $87,600 is appropriated to the
Department of Public Health for
administrative costs of implementing the contracts authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide evaluation services.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant as described in the file.
Section 4. That any agency or entity
that receives funds under this ordinance shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided
by the consultant.
Section 5. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Directors of Public Health and Community
Development must enter into a memorandum of understanding for this pro-

May 22, 2013
gram in accordance with the terms
authorized by this legislation.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts, and administrative
costs referred to in Section 1, authorized in this ordinance are appropriated for costs of the Department of Public Health incurred from Fund 19 following the appropriate federal regulations and shall not exceed $317,600
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF
039, Request No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-66.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 761-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name SIFCO Way as a secondary name to East 64th Street
between St. Clair and Spilker Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name SIFCO Way shall be
added as a secondary name to East
64th Street between St. Clair and
Spilker Street.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 762-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres High School Work
Study Program to participate as a
sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Saint Martin De
Porres High School Work Study Program to participate as a sponsor of
students for work/study positions
with Cleveland City Council. This
agreement shall be entered into as
of August 1, 2013 and shall terminate July 31, 2014. Cleveland City
Council shall provide sponsorship

The City Record
for up to four students at a time
during the term. The agreement
shall be certified for $32,000.00 and
shall be certified from fund number
01, subfund 001, department 0101,
object 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 766-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an amendment to the agreement
with Paladin Protective Systems,
Inc. City Contract No. PS 2012-318,
for additional money for the completion of professional services necessary to provide a sound system
analysis and acoustical engineering
services for the Council Chambers
and Committee Room for Cleveland
City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council (“Clerk”) is authorized to enter
into an amendment to the agreement
with Paladin Protective Systems,
Inc. (“Consultant”), City Contract
No. PS 2012-318, to add $24,746.25 to
the agreement for the completion of
the professional services necessary
to provide a sound system analysis
and acoustical engineering services
for the Council Chambers and Committee Room for Cleveland City
Council. The amount of this amendment shall be certified from fund 20524.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 771-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Ordinance No. 595-13, passed April
29, 2013 to repeal existing sections
195.02 and 195.03.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 59513, passed April 29, 2013 is amended
to read as follows:
Section 1a. That existing Sections
195.02 and 195.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as

947

59
amended by Ordinance No. 957-12,
passed July 11, 2012 are repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Awaiting approval or disapproval
of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 772-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the OROC Run, on August
7, 2013, sponsored by Hermes Sports
& Events Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the OROC Run, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events
Inc., on August 7, 2013, start: East
9th & Erieside, Erieside to West 3rd,
West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to
East 6th, East 6th to St. Clair, St.
Clair to West 9th, West 9th to Lakeside, Lakeside to West 3rd, West 3rd
to Erieside, Erieside to East 9th and
Finish Line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 773-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Tremont Steeplechase
Run, on October 19, 2013, sponsored
by Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordi-

The City Record

60
nances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the OROC Run, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events
Inc., on October 19, 2013, start: Lincoln Park, West 11th & Starkweather, Starkweather to West 14th to
Fairfield, Fairfield to West 11th,
West 11th to University, University
to West 5th, West 5th to Starkweather, Starkweather to Professor,
Professor to West 10th, West 10th to
University, University to West 11th,
West 11th to Starkweather (finish
line), provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 774-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Halloween Run, on
October 26, 2013, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the OROC Run, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events
Inc., on October 26, 2013, start: St.
Clair & East 12th, East 12th to Lakeside, Lakeside to West 3rd, West 3rd
to Erieside, Erieside to East 9th,
Across East 9th to North Marginal,
North Marginal to East 26th Bridge.
Turn around return same route to
(finish line), provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

Ord. No. 777-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to amend
the agreement between the City of
Cleveland
and
Triad
Research
Group to certify additional funds to
the agreement for Cleveland City
Council.

May 22, 2013
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to amend the agreement between the City of Cleveland
and Triad Research Group, City Contract No. PS2011000000022 to certify
an additional amount not to exceed
$25,000.00 from fund 01, dept. 0101
subfund 001 object code 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 13, 2013.
Effective May 16, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Thursday, May 16, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee: Present: Keane, Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell. Authorized Absence:
Pruitt.
Monday, May 20, 2013
9:00 a.m.
Committee of the Whole: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Reed, Westbrook Zone.
Authorized Absence: Pruitt.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Bed Bug Assistance Program — professional service — contracts (O 673-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, And Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Community Development Department (O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940

Agreements
After School Hot-Meal Program, 2013-15 — Children’s Hunger Alliance (O 726-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 766-09 — East 73rd St., 2970 and East 130th St., 3465 —
Property exchange with CMSD (O 728-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative (CIRI) Administrative Expense — Economic
Development Assistance — Wire-Net (O 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Grant — Revenue Assistance Corporation — Economic Development
Assistance to relocate 4780 Hinckley Parkway (O 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lung Cancer Screening and Prevention Program — University Hospital — Health Department
(Ward 02 NCF) (O 802-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Summer Jobs Program — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — Community Development
Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 803-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

948

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

May 22, 2013

The City Record

61

AIDS
AIDS — Related Services — HOPWA Grant — various agencies — Grant — Health Department
(O 661-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946

Appreciation
Jones, Sister Gussie (R 830-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Synenberg, Judge Joan (R 831-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Appropriations
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG and Home Funds — Community Development
Department (O 605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Additional — Three Million Eight Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Seven
Hundred Three ($3,855,703) — Enterprise Funds — Finance Department (O 794-13). . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building
and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community Development
Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Program — Expend CDBG And Federal Home Funds — contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 659-13) . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community Development Department —
Public Works Department (O 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, and Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Aging Department — Community Development Department
(O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940

Banners
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — West 65th St. (South of
Detroit Ave.) — June 7 to July 15 — Gordon Square Walk & Run — Capital Projects
(Ward 15) (O 804-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Bennington Avenue, 12613, (Ward 18) — Anthony Lovas, owner — appeal resolved on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-30-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Avenue, 2541, (Ward 5) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-78-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter Avenue, 6600, (Ward 12) — Robert Mantarro, owner — appeal resolved on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-46-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 625, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-238-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 3402, (front), (Ward 6) — Althea Jones, owner — appeal resolved
on 5/8/13 (Doc. A-27-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 3402, (rear), (Ward 6) — Althea Jones, owner — appeal resolved
on 5/8/13 (Doc. A-27-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 125th Street, 474, (Ward 10) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-273-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 1073, (Ward 10) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-222-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 4155, (Ward 1) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-98-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 4631, (Ward 1) — Barbara J. Palmore, owner — appeal resolved on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-36-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 4631, (Ward 1) — New York Community Bank, Mortgagee — appeal resolved
on 5/8/13 (Doc. A-33-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3934, (Ward 1) — John H. Cooper, Jr., owner — appeal resolved on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-34-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 54th Street, 3672, (Ward 12) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-242-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 54th Street, 3818, (Ward 12) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-256-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 86th Street, 1942, (Ward 7) — Euclid Avenue Church of God, owner — appeal postponed
to 6/19/13 on 5/8/13 (Doc. A-32-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th Street, 1901, (Ward 7) — Solomon McCall, owner — appeal resolved on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-37-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Empire Avenue, 9018, (Ward 8) — George Fligiel and Bridge Mortgage Investments, owner —
appeal postponed to 6/19/13 on 5/8/13 (Doc. A-29-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fernway Avenue, 15108, (Ward 19) — Betty Krischler, owner — appeal resolved on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

949

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865

The City Record

62

May 22, 2013

Hillgrove Road, 18001, (Ward 11) — Donald F. Weiss, owner — appeal resolved on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-24-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Hilton Road, 1958, (Ward 10) — Wayman Moore, owner — appeal resolved on 5/8/13 (Doc. A-25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Hosmer Avenue, 6925, (Ward 12) — Edward J. Fischer, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-69-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Indiana Avenue, 7211, (Ward 12) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-274-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Kewanee Avenue, 18617, (Ward 11) — Julie Shea, owner — appeal resolved on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Lakeview Road, 1443, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-226-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Manor Avenue, 9418, (Ward 4) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-272-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Saywell Avenue, 12408, (Ward 15) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-77-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Saywell Avenue, 12408, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-225-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Saywell Avenue, 12424, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-211-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
St. Clair Avenue, 17602, (Ward 11) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-243-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
St. John Avenue, 12409, (Ward 17) — Janet Lieb, owner — appeal withdrawn on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Temblett Avenue, 11609, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-223-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Tuscora Avenue, 12428, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-237-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
West 47th Street, 3043, (Ward 15) — Troy Good, owner — appeal resolved on
5/8/13 (Doc. A-38-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
West Boulevard, 3616, (Ward 6) — James Zimmerman, owner — appeal resolved on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-35-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Whitmore Avenue, 11209, (Ward 9) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 5/8/13
(Doc. A-224-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Runway 6L-24R Safety Area — per Ord. 710-12 to Independence Excavating, Inc. — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 240-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Rental Car Consolidated Facility — lease by way of concession — assign various contracts
to Simply Wheelz, LLC — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 238-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Security bollards and roadway improvements at Main Terminal — per Ord. 748-11, 395-12 to
EnviroCom Construction, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 239-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Austrian Court, 8101 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-02-044 — Michael Head and Angela Head
(BOC Res. 248-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bryant Avenue, 10612 (Ward 8) — PPN 108-26-044 — Alfred White and Debra White
(BOC Res. 246-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 130th Street, 849 (Ward 10) — PPN 110-15-071 — Leonard F. Davis (BOC Res. 252-13) . . . . .
East 64th Street, 1071 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-21-139 — Christina Ermids (BOC Res. 250-13). . . . . .
East 74th Street, 1016 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-27-024 — Valicia Smith Jones (BOC Res. 253-13) . . .
East 78th Street, 1076 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-31-110 — Patricia Dawn Sigmon (BOC Res. 247-13) .
East 81st Street, 1868 (Ward 7) — PPN 119-01-029 — Nancy Y. Simpson (BOC Res. 244-13) . . . . .
East 89th Street, 1382 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-14-137 — Lamont Wynn (BOC Res. 249-13) . . . . . . . .
Elton Avenue, 7307 (Ward 15) — PPN 006-07-027 — Dr. Orin J. Martin and Dr. Dorothy L.S.
Martin (BOC Res. 254-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Folsom Avenue, 9009 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-07-048 — Union Grove Baptist Church
(BOC Res. 251-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Homer Avenue, 5322 (Ward 8) — PPN 104-11-091 — Luke J. Brill (BOC Res. 245-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Utica Avenue, 6304 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-21-068 — Ina Grace Buckley (BOC Res. 243-13). . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 3583 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-24-015 — Akel S. Zayed (BOC Res. 255-13) . . . . . . .
West 93rd Street, 2081 (Ward 16) — PPN 005-03-010 — lease — Kristel Smith (BOC Res. 242-13)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

919
921
920
921
920
919
920

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

921
919
919
922
918

Board of Control — Finance Department
Gases, commercial, medical and specialty — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Airgas USA, LLC, dba
Airgas Great Lakes (BOC Res. 235-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Austrian Court, 8101 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-02-044 — Michael Head and Angela Head
(BOC Res. 248-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Bryant Avenue, 10612 (Ward 8) — PPN 108-26-044 — Alfred White and Debra White
(BOC Res. 246-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919

950

May 22, 2013

The City Record

63

East 130th Street, 849 (Ward 10) — PPN 110-15-071 — Leonard F. Davis (BOC Res. 252-13) . . . . .
East 64th Street, 1071 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-21-139 — Christina Ermids (BOC Res. 250-13). . . . . .
East 74th Street, 1016 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-27-024 — Valicia Smith Jones (BOC Res. 253-13) . . .
East 78th Street, 1076 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-31-110 — Patricia Dawn Sigmon (BOC Res. 247-13) .
East 81st Street, 1868 (Ward 7) — PPN 119-01-029 — Nancy Y. Simpson (BOC Res. 244-13) . . . . .
East 89th Street, 1382 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-14-137 — Lamont Wynn (BOC Res. 249-13) . . . . . . . .
Elton Avenue, 7307 (Ward 15) — PPN 006-07-027 — Dr. Orin J. Martin and Dr. Dorothy L.S.
Martin (BOC Res. 254-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Folsom Avenue, 9009 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-07-048 — Union Grove Baptist Church
(BOC Res. 251-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Homer Avenue, 5322 (Ward 8) — PPN 104-11-091 — Luke J. Brill (BOC Res. 245-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Utica Avenue, 6304 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-21-068 — Ina Grace Buckley (BOC Res. 243-13). . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 3583 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-24-015 — Akel S. Zayed (BOC Res. 255-13) . . . . . . .
West 93rd Street, 2081 (Ward 16) — PPN 005-03-010 — lease — Kristel Smith (BOC Res. 242-13)

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

921
920
921
920
919
920

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

921
919
919
922
918

Board of Control — Leases
Rental Car Consolidated Facility — lease by way of concession — assign various contracts
to Simply Wheelz, LLC — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 238-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Rental Car Consolidated Facility — lease by way of concession — assign various contracts
to Simply Wheelz, LLC — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 238-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Runway 6L-24R Safety Area — per Ord. 710-12 to Independence Excavating, Inc. — Division
of Burke Lakefront Airport (BOC Res. 240-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Security bollards and roadway improvements at Main Terminal — per Ord. 748-11, 395-12 to
EnviroCom Construction, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 239-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Distribution mains — Area 2013-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — per Ord. 1691-12
to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 236-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 6L-24R Safety Area — per Ord. 710-12 to Independence Excavating, Inc. — Division
of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 240-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security bollards and roadway improvements at Main Terminal — per Ord. 748-11, 395-12 to
EnviroCom Construction, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 239-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Main Replacement, Phase II — per Ord. 1691-12 to Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Distribution mains — Area 2013-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — per Ord. 1691-12
to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 236-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Water Main Replacement, Phase II — per Ord. 1691-12 to Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes — per Ord.
1585-12, C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Gordon Food Service — Division of Recreation (BOC Res. 241-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes — per Ord.
1585-12, C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Gordon Food Service — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 241-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes — per Ord.
1585-12, C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Gordon Food Service — Division of Recreation, Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 241-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Gases, commercial, medical and specialty — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Airgas USA, LLC, dba
Airgas Great Lakes — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 235-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917

Board of Control — Water Division
Distribution mains — Area 2013-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of — per Ord. 1691-12
to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 236-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Water Main Replacement, Phase II — per Ord. 1691-12 to Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917

951

The City Record

64

May 22, 2013

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
East 131st Street, 3682, (Ward 4) — Anderson Davis, owner — appeal withdrawn on 5/20/13
(Cal. 13-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2280, (Ward 5) — Elabed, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 5/20/13
(Cal. 13-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11607, (Ward 9) — Maximum Independence Living, owner — appeal heard
on 5/20/13 (Cal. 13-73) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 14401, (Ward 1) — Eleare Kinney, owner and Robert Meadows, prospective
tenant — appeal postponed to 7/01/13 on 5/20/13 (Cal. 13-31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herman Avenue, 5400, (Ward 15) — Argentina Rocco, owner — appeal heard on 5/20/13
(Cal. 13-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilworth Avenue, 1002, (Ward 3) — John Meigs, owner — appeal postponed to 6/24/13 on
5/20/13 (Cal. 13-63). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sedalia Avenue, 17604, (Ward 19) — Khalil Rasheed, owner — appeal heard on 5/20/13
(Cal. 13-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 2676, (Ward 3) — Walter Holtkamp, owner, and Sean Kelly and Andrea
Thornton, prospective tenants — appeal heard on 5/20/13 (Cal. 13-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Crawford Road, 1662, (Ward 7) — City of Cleveland, owner, and Jamel Rahkeera, prospective
tenant — appeal to be heard on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 3107, a.k.a. 1421 West 32nd Street, (Ward 3) — Ohio City Development
Partners, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-80) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Road, 838, (Ward 10) — Sip One, LLC, owner, and Sam Salti, prospective tenant —
appeal to be heard on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-77) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 2831, (Ward 3) — Westside Masonic Temple, owner — appeal to be heard
on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-78) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3025, (Ward 14) — The 3025 LLC, owner, and Hanan Albanna, prospective
tenant — appeal to be heard on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 3193, (Ward 14) — Marcelo Galarzo, owner, and Beth Trembly, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-76) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 76th Street, 1200, (Ward 15) — The Grand C Corporation, owner — appeal to be heard
on 6/3/13 (Cal. 13-79) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923

Bonds
Add Bond Funds to funding source for paving (O 793-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Amend Ord. No. 912-07, 591-11, 607-12, 608-12 — Add Bond Funds to The 2006 Bridge Plan
& Woodland Ave., Cedar Ave., And Fleet Ave. Improvement Projects (O 730-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Bridges
Amend Ord. No. 912-07, 591-11, 607-12, 608-12 — Add Bond Funds to The 2006 Bridge Plan
& Woodland Ave., Cedar Ave., And Fleet Ave. Improvement Projects (O 730-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Building and Housing Department
Contracts for Demolition using Court Settlements (O 670-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community
Development Department (O 604-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938

Capital Projects
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
TO Cedar Ave.) (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 912-07, 591-11, 607-12, 608-12 — Add Bond Funds to The 2006 Bridge Plan
& Woodland Ave., Cedar Ave., and Fleet Ave. Improvement Projects (O 730-13). . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect(s) 186.02, 186.03, 186.04 and 186.05 — Public Art (O 166-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 241.37 — Mobile Food Shops — Location Restrictions (O 435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amsterdam Rd, N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission
(Ward 11) (O 753-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brownell Court S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 808-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — banners — West 65th St. (South of
Detroit Ave.) — June 7 to July 15 — Gordon Square Walk & Run (Ward 15) (O 804-13) . . . .
East 64th St. (Between St. Clair and Spilker St.) — Secondary Name of SIFCO Way (Ward 07)
(O 761-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halloween Run — permit — Oct. 26th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 774-13) . . . .
OROC Run — permit — Aug. 7th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 772-13) . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Rehabilitation, Renovation and Reconstruction — Public Works Department
(O 792-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Improvement Contracts — Resurfacing Chester Ave. (O 746-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) Reconstruction — public improvement contract
(Ward 18) (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

952

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

May 22, 2013

The City Record

65

Reconstructing and Streetscaping East 22nd St. (From Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent —
State of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 05) (O 737-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement contracts (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock ‘N’ Roll Half Marathon — permit — October 6th — Rock ‘N Roll Marathon
Series/Competitor Group (Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 818-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rumar Drive N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward
09) (R 809-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell City-Owned Property — Alden Ave. and West 159th St. — Mary Margaret Roche (Yard
Expansion) (O 751-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and acquire Easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. Ltd., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Steeplechase Run — permit — Oct. 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward
03) (O 773-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, Equipment and Accessories (O 790-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd. — consent — State of Ohio (Ward 11) (O 760-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 13) (R 371-13) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

947
897
912
916

Case Western Reserve University
CWRU Partnership Program — Grant — Health Department (O 655-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945

City Council
Council Supports Neutrality to impartially review The Facts and Circumstances of The Events
on Nov. 29, 2012 (R 211-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — May 17 — 24, 2013 (F 811-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — Amend Contract No. PS 2012-318 — professional services —
Sound System Analysis & Acoustical Engineering Services (O 766-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triad Research Group — Amend Contract No. PS 2011000000022 — professional services (O 777-13)
Work Study Program — Saint Martin De Porres High School (O 762-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . 947

City of Cleveland Bids
Allison transmissions, re-manufactured and repairs — Department of Public Works —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due June 19, 2013
(advertised 5/22/2013 and 5/29/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concrete construction contract, 2013 City Wards — Office of Capital Projects — Division
of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 705-13 — bid due June 6, 2013 (advertised
5/22/2013 and 5/29/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elgin sweeper parts and labor — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due June 19, 2013 (advertised 5/22/2013 and
5/29/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment, heavy duty; rental — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
Ord. 1630-12 — bid due June 13, 2013 (advertised 5/15/2013 and 5/22/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise equipment at various recreation centers, repair or replacement (Re-bid) —
Department of Public Works — Division of Recreation — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due June 7, 2013 (advertised 5/15/2013 and 5/22/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Filing systems; criminal and civil — Department of Finance — behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due June 12, 2013 (advertised
5/22/2013 and 5/29/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generator maintenance and repair — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due June 19, 2013 (advertised 5/22/2013 and
5/29/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Janitorial supplies — Department of Finance — per Ord. 446-12 — bid due June
12, 2013 (advertised 5/22/2013 and 5/29/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office improvements — Department of Public Works — Division of Architecture and Site
Improvement — per Ord. 533-12 — bid due June 19, 2013 (advertised 5/22/2013 and 5/29/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quicklime and hydrated lime — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
C.O. Sec. 129.24 — bid due June 20, 2013 (advertised 5/22/2013 and 5/29/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety equipment for OSHA/PERRP compliance — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 26-13 — bid due June 13, 2013 (advertised 5/15/2013 and 5/22/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 925

. . 924

. . 925
. . 924

. . 924

. . 924

. . 924
. . 924
. . 925
. . 925
. . 924

City Planning Commission
Amend Contract No. CT 0110 PS 2012-111 with L.A.N.D. Studio, Inc., — Extend Contract Date
to December 31, 2014 (O 731-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect(s) 186.02, 186.03, 186.04 and 186.05 — Public Art (O 166-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 559.239 and Enact New Section 559.246 — Korean Cultural Garden and Russian
Cultural Garden (O 487-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amsterdam Rd, N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects
(Ward 11) (O 753-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brownell Court S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 03) (R 808-13) . .
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts (Ward 15) (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District (Ward
11) (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Success Street —
Works Department (Ward 08) (O 797-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

953

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

The City Record

66

East 51st St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Dream Drive —
Works Department (Ward 08) (O 798-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 64th St. (Between St. Clair and Spilker St.) — Secondary Name of SIFCO Way — Capital
Projects (Ward 07) (O 761-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District (Ward 18) (O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark (Ward
08) (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts
(Ward 07) (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kempton Ave. (Between East 105th St. and Herrick Rd.) — Secondary and Honorary
Designation of “Michael R. White Way” — Works Department (Ward 08) (O 800-13) . . . . .
Lorain Ave. and W. 147th St. — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 19) (O 810-13) . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward
16) (O 25-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rumar Drive N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 09) (R 809-13) . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District (Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. (Between East 49th St. to East 51st St.) — Secondary and
Honorary Designation of “Julius Brenner Way” — Works Department (Ward 08)
(O 799-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 13) (R 371-13) . . . . . . .

May 22, 2013
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916

Civil Service Commission
Professional Services — Develop, Administer and Grade Examinations for Police and Fire
Exams (O 672-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

Clerk of Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — May 17 — 24, 2013 (F 811-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — Amend Contract No. PS 2012-318 — professional services —
Sound System Analysis & Acoustical Engineering Services (O 766-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triad Research Group — Amend Contract No. PS 2011000000022 — professional services — City
Council (O 777-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Work Study Program — Saint Martin De Porres High School (O 762-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Cleveland Municipal Court
Legal Services to Defend Indigents — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission —
Finance Department (O 806-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 766-09 — East 73rd St., 2970 and East 130th St., 3465 —
Property Exchange with CMSD (O 728-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — Contract to benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Public Works Department — Finance Department (O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

Codified Ordinances
Amend 431.03 — Overtaking, Passing to Left ; Driver’s Duties (O 518-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 595-13 — Repeal Existing Sections 195.02 and 195.03 (O 771-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect(s) 186.02, 186.03, 186.04 and 186.05 — Public Art (O 166-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 241.37 — Mobile Food Shops — Location Restrictions (O 435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 413.031 — Red Light Cameras — Contract with Xerox State & Local Solutions,
Inc., to install and maintain Automated Traffic Cameras (O 650-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 541.03 — Responsibility for Installation and Maintenance of Sewer Connections
(O 817-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 551.991 — Civil Infractions for Waste Collection and Disposal (O 819-13) . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 559.239 and Enact New Section 559.246 — Korean Cultural Garden and Russian
Cultural Garden (O 487-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 531.56 and 533.01 — Inspection, Approval and Repair of Fixtures and general
provisions Regarding Water Service (O 563-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Area Business Code — Amend Section 187.04, 187.06,187.12 and 187.14 —
Equal Opportunity Office (O 532-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Section 131.36 — Hough Multi-Service Center (Hough Ave., 8555) — Lease
(Ward 07) (O 1650-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hotel Tax — Amend Section 193.02 and 193.03 — Repeal Section 193.031 (O 597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirements for Taxicabs & Penalties — Amend various sections of Chapter 443 — Enact New
Section 443.99 (O 598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Amend Section 535.06 — Fees and Charges — Water Division (O 564-13).
Utilities Department — Amend Section 535.16 — Termination for nonpayment of Water or
Waste Water Bill; Notice (O 565-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

906
947
929
905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Communications
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — May 17 — 24, 2013 (F 811-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

954

May 22, 2013

The City Record

67

Community Development
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG and Home Funds — Community Development
Department (O 605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1582-12 — Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2012 — Grant — Ohio
Development Services Agency (O 733-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building
and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community Development
Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums Of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD — Community
Development Department — Cuyahoga County — CMHA — GCRTA — NEORSD (O 606-13) . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garden Program — Non-Profit Agencies (O 603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2013 — Grants — Ohio Development Services
Agency (ODSA) (O 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation, New Housing Construction And Commercial Redevelopment Programs —
Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 658-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan And Grant Program — Expend CDBG and Federal Home Funds — contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 659-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Sell City-Owned Property — Crayton Ave. and East 51st St. — Perk Company Inc., (Purposes
of Redevelopment) (O 752-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, And Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Aging Department — Community Development Department
(O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Program — Rebate and Grant/Loan
Agreements — Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 660-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Summer Jobs Program — agreement — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — Community
Development Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 803-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 939
. . . . . . . . . . . 911

. . . . . . . . . . . 938

. . . . . . . . . . . 938

. . . . . . . . . . . 939
. . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . 946
. . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . 912

. . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . 902

Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG and Home Funds — Community Development
Department (O 605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1582-12 — Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2012 — Grant — Ohio
Development Services Agency (O 733-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building
and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community Development
Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD — Community
Development Department — Cuyahoga County — CMHA — GCRTA — NEORSD (O 606-13) . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garden Program — Non-Profit Agencies (O 603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation, New Housing Construction and Commercial Redevelopment Programs —
Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 658-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Program — Expend CDBG and Federal Home Funds — contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 659-13) . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community Development Department —
Public Works Department (O 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, and Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Aging Department — Community Development Department
(O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Program — Rebate and Grant/Loan
Agreements — Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 660-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 939
. . . . . . . . . . . . 911

. . . . . . . . . . . . 938

. . . . . . . . . . . . 938

. . . . . . . . . . . . 939
. . . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . . 938
. . . . . . . . . . . . 946
. . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . 906

. . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . 907

Condolences
Davis, William Daniel (R 821-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Johnson, Jr., Johnnie B. (R 820-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Sweeney, Jr., Clifford (R 822-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Congratulations
Benacci, Nancy Cunningham (R 823-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Coyne, Anthony J. (R 824-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Kahl, Jack (R 825-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

955

The City Record

68

May 22, 2013

Kyle, Charles M. (R 826-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Maynard, Robert C. (R 827-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Congress Of United States
Supporting Mandatory Labeling of Genetically Engineered Food (R 812-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Urging Congress to pass HR 1213, The Common Sense Housing Investment Act of 2013 (R 775-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927

Contracts
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th St.) —
Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Acquire and Re-Convey Property for chain-of-title — Euclid Ave., 900-916, Euclid Ave.,
1010 and East 9th St., 2017 — TIF for Ameritrust (O 789-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Add Bond Funds to funding source for paving (O 793-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Amend Ord. No. 732-07 & Ord. No. 51-09 — Apply and Accept Grants and Gifts from public
and private entities to facilitate Sustainability Projects — Dedicated Energy Fund
(O 727-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Amend Ord. No. 912-07, 591-11, 607-12, 608-12 — Add Bond Funds to The 2006 Bridge Plan
& Woodland Ave., Cedar Ave., and Fleet Ave. Improvement Projects (O 730-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 817-12 — Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255
with Inland Waters of Ohio — Aircraft Deicing Fluid Management Services
(O 695-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Amend Section 413.031 — Red Light Cameras — Xerox State & Local Solutions, Inc., to install
and maintain Automated Traffic Cameras (O 650-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Amend Title & Section 1 of Ord. No. 956-11 — Roof and Roof System repair and replacement —
various divisions (O 676-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Bed Bug Assistance Program — professional service — Aging Department (O 673-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Building and Housing Department — Demolition using Court Settlements (O 670-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Capital Projects — public improvement — Resurfacing Chester Ave. (O 746-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
City Planning Commission — Amend Contract No. CT 0110 PS 2012-111 with L.A.N.D. Studio,
Inc., — Extend Contract Date To December 31, 2014 (O 731-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Cleveland Landmarks Commission — Cleveland Restoration Society — professional services —
Landmark Survey (O 738-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Consulting Services COBRA and HIPAA Program Administration — Human Resources
Department (O 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Consulting Services for Assistance Program Administration — Human Resources Department
(O 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Detroit Avenue Area Sewer Replacement — public improvement — Utilities Department (WPC)
(O 743-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Economic Development — Amend Contract No. 35112 — Eliza Bryant Village — Discount
prepayments of its UDAG Loan — Addison Rd., 1380 (Ward 07) (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Economic Development — The Hansa Import House, Inc., — Building At 2717 Lorain Ave. (VPI)
(O 739-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. — Provide
Technical Training and Development for Employees (O 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
**MT**Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel
Selection International, Inc. (O 691-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with Big Wireless, LLC — Provide
Technical Support and Preventive Maintenance for Wireless Equipment (O 611-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 — Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. —
Surveying Services (O 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 — Associates, Inc. — Surveying Services
(O 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center for Families and Children
(O 696-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
Puresafety (O 689-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with Oshkosh Corporation (O 690-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Exercise option to renew contract with PSC Metals, Inc. for The Salvaging of Motor Vehicles
(O 1457-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917-T
Finance Department — Amend Contract No. CT 1511-PS 2010-249 with Novarum, Inc. — Develop
A Wireless Broadband Network In City Hall and Public Hall (O 732-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. for governmental aggregation service — Finance Department —
Utilities Department (O 796-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation dba Greater Cleveland Film Commission —
assist in operations (O 668-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Hauling and Disposal of Water Treatment Plant Residuals — Utilities Department — Water
Division (O 807-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Housing Rehabilitation, New Housing Construction and Commercial Redevelopment Programs —
Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 658-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Legal Services to Defend Indigents — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission —
Finance Department (O 806-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

956

May 22, 2013

The City Record

Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — Amend Contract No. PS 2012-318 — professional services —
Sound System Analysis & Acoustical Engineering Services (O 766-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Shelley Company for pavement repairs — Runway 6L/24 R (O 703-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — professional services — Safety Equipment and Support Services (O 700-13) . . . . . .
Public Facilities Rehabilitation, Renovation and Reconstruction — Public Works Department
(O 792-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) reconstruction — public improvement — Capital
Projects (Ward 18) (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reconstructing and Streetscaping East 22nd St. (From Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consentState of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 05) (O 737-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreation Facilities, Buildings, and Structures Improvements — Public Works Department
(O 791-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreational, Cultural, And Extracurricular Programs — Benefit School Children — 2012-2013 —
Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Public Works Department — Finance
Department (O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement Capital Projects (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Test Maintain, Fuel & Repair Fueled Backup Electrical Systems & Back Up Computer System
(O 675-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — Grant Agreement — Economic Development
(O 669-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triad Research Group — Amend Contract No. PS 2011000000022 — professional services — City
Council (O 777-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional services — public improvement — Security and Network
Security Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, Equipment and Accessories (O 790-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd. — consent — State of Ohio -Capital Projects (Ward 11) (O 760-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wildlife Bird Exclusion Systems — Port Control (O 569-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Work Study Program — Saint Martin De Porres High School (O 762-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

69
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 898

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Council
Recusal — Ord. 731-13 — Council Member Cimperman (Ward 3) (F 731-13-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

County Budget Commission
Tax Budget, 2014 — Adopt and Declare (R 795-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Cuyahoga County
Adoption of The Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan — Safety Department
(R 679-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Lease City Property to County for The Frederick Douglas Farm Park (O 741-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — banners — West 65th St. (South of
Detroit Ave.) — June 7 to July 15 — Gordon Square Walk & Run — Capital Projects
(Ward 15) (O 804-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

Easements
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer
Project — NEORSD — Public Works (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Sell Property and acquire easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. Ltd., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Sell Property and temporary easement — Pearl Rd., 18670 to City of Strongsville (O 434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Economic Development Department
Acquire and Re-Convey Property for chain-of-title — Euclid Ave., 900-916, Euclid Ave.,
1010 and East 9th St., 2017 — TIF for Ameritrust (O 789-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Contract No. 35112 — Eliza Bryant Village — Discount prepayments of its UDAG Loan —
Addison Rd., 1380 (Ward 07) (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept A Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Fortuna Development , LLC —
Rockefeller Ave., 2525 and Transport Rd., 2655 and 2727 (O 734-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative (CIRI) Administrative Expense — Economic
Development Assistance — Wire-Net (O 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract — The Hansa Import House, Inc., — Building at 2717 Lorain Ave. (VPI) (O 739-13) . . . . .
Enterprise Zone Agreement — Cleveland Tech Holding LLC — Rockwell Ave., 1425-1625
(Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone) (O 788-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . . . .

957

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907

The City Record

70

May 22, 2013

Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats Phase 1 Projects — TIF Amendment — Flats Phase Ii Projects (O 678-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grant Agreement — Revenue Assistance Corporation — Economic Development assistance
to relocate 4780 Hinckley Parkway (O 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation dba Greater Cleveland Film Commission —
assist in operations (O 668-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — Grant Agreement (O 669-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

Enterprise Funds
Appropriations — Additional — Three Million Eight Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Seven
Hundred Three ($3,855,703) — Finance Department (O 794-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Economic Development — Cleveland Tech Holding LLC — Rockwell Ave., 1425-1625 (Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone) (O 788-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

Fees
Amend Section 551.991 — Civil Infractions for Waste Collection and Disposal (O 819-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Utilities Department — Amend Section 535.06 — Fees and Charges — Water Division (O 564-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933

Finance Department
Amend Contract No. CT 1511-PS 2010-249 with Novarum, Inc. — Develop a Wireless Broadband
Network In City Hall and Public Hall (O 732-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Additional — Three Million Eight Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Seven
Hundred Three ($3,855,703) — Enterprise Funds (O 794-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorize Payment (O 742-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. for governmental aggregation service — contracts — Utilities
Department (O 796-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hotel Tax — Amend Section 193.02 and 193.03 — Repeal Section 193.031 (O 597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — extend moratorium on permits — Building and
Housing Department (O 801-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal Services to Defend Indigents — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission (O 806-13).
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — Contract to benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Public Works Department
(O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and Wage Schedules — Sections 36, 38, and 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Human
Resources Department (O 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax Budget, 2014 — adopt and declare — Budget Commission of Cuyahoga County (R 795-13). . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Flats District
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats Phase 1 Projects — TIF Amendment — Flats Phase II Projects (O 678-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909

Gifts
Accept funds from Cory Methodist Church to assist with Boiler replacement at the Church
(O 647-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Grants
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
After School Hot-Meal Program, 2013-15 — Children’s Hunger Alliance (O 726-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AIDS — Related Services — HOPWA Grant — various agencies — Health Department (O 661-13)
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division —
Health Department — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 654-13) . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1582-12 — Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2012 — Ohio Development
Services Agency (O 733-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 732-07 & Ord. No. 51-09 — Apply and Accept Grants and Gifts from public
and private entities to facilitate Sustainability Projects — Dedicated Energy Fund
(O 727-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept A Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Fortuna Development, LLC — Rockefeller
Ave., 2525 And Transport Rd., 2655 and 2727 (O 734-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — various agencies — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
Health Department (O 599-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

958

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

May 22, 2013

The City Record

71

Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative (CIRI) Administrative Expense — Economic
Development Assistance — Wire-Net (O 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CWRU Partnership Program — Case Western Reserve University — Health Department (O 655-13)
Economic Development — agreement — Revenue Assistance Corporation — Economic
Development assistance to relocate 4780 Hinckley Parkway (O 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation dba Greater Cleveland Film Commission —
assist in operations (O 668-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2013 — Ohio Development Services Agency (ODSA)
(O 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minority Health Program, 2013-14 — Health Department — Ohio Commission On Minority
Health (O 805-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund Grant, 2012 — Ohio Office Of Criminal Justice —
Safety Department (O 600-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
Health Department (O 656-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Economic Development (O 669-13) . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department Of Health — Medicaid Program Payments — Health
Department (O 657-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . 945
. . . . . . . . . . . 941
. . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . 937
. . . . . . . . . . . 945
. . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . 945

Health Department
AIDS — Related Services — HOPWA Grant — various agencies — Grant (O 661-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division — Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 654-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 241.37 — Mobile Food Shops — location restrictions (O 435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — grant — various agencies — Cuyahoga County Board
Of Health (O 599-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CWRU Partnership Program — grant — Case Western Reserve University (O 655-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lung Cancer Screening and Prevention Program — agreement — University Hospital (Ward 02
NCF) (O 802-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minority Health Program, 2013-14 — grants — Ohio Commission On Minority Health (O 805-13). . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 656-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — grants- Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid Program Payments (O 657-13) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 946
. . . . . . . . . . . . 944
. . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . 937
. . . . . . . . . . . . 945
. . . . . . . . . . . . 946
. . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . 945
. . . . . . . . . . . . 945

House Bill
Opposing House Bills 151 and 152 “Right To Work” Laws (R 782-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907

Housing Court
Building and Housing Department — Contracts for Demolition using Court Settlements (O 670-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

Human Resources Department
Background and Criminal Checks, Pre-Employment (O 618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services COBRA and HIPAA Program Administration (O 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services for Assistance Program Administration (O 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and Wage Schedules — Sections 36, 38, and 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Finance
Department (O 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workers’ Compensation and Actuarial Services (O 749-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Landmark Commission
Cleveland Landmarks Commission — contract — Cleveland Restoration Society — professional
services — Landmark Survey (O 738-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 505-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 506-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Lease Agreement
Port Control — Parker Hannifin (O 704-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Leases
Enact New Section 131.36 — Hough Multi-Service Center (Hough Ave., 8555) (Ward 07)
(O 1650-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Lease City Property to County for The Frederick Douglas Farm Park (O 741-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911

959

The City Record

72

May 22, 2013

Port Control — Lease Docks 28b, 30, and 32 — Cleveland Browns — Surface Parking and
Staging Special Events (O 701-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Licenses
Amend Section 241.37 — Mobile Food Shops — Location Restrictions (O 435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — extend moratorium on permits — Building and
Housing Department — Finance Department (O 801-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 7763-71 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1090-12 (Ward
12) (R 764-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 135th St., 3218 (1st Fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 04) (R 768-13) . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 783 (Rear and Patio) and East 185th St., 779 (1st Fl. and Bsmt.) — withdraw
objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res 1495-12 (Ward 11) (R 763-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3868 — objection to issuance (Ward 12) (R 813-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1081-12 and Res. 684-13
(Ward 12) (R 765-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 3551-55 (Patio) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1028-12 (Ward
05) (R 814-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 13411 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1094-12 & Res. 686-13 (Ward
01) (R 759-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 9111 — objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 767-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3400 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res 622-13
(Ward 08) (R 770-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1124-12 (Ward 11) (R 769-13).
West 117th St., 3934 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1131-12 (Ward 17)
(R 815-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Loans
Economic Development — Amend Contract No. 35112 — Eliza Bryant Village — Discount
prepayments of its UDAG Loan — Addison Rd., 1380 (Ward 07) (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — contract — The Hansa Import House, Inc., — Building at 2717 Lorain
Ave. (VPI) (O 739-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907

Moral Claims
Authorize Payment — Finance Department (O 742-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Youth Summer Jobs Program — agreement — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — Community
Development Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 803-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — easement — Dugway West Interceptor
Relief Sewer Project — Public Works (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

Office Of Equal Opportunity
Cleveland Area Business Code — Amend Sections 187.04, 187.06, 187.12 and 187.14 (O 532-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Capital Projects — public improvement contracts — Resurfacing Chester Ave. (O 746-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division —
Health Department (O 654-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944

Ohio General Assembly
Declaring May 20, 2013 as expand Medicaid Eligibility in Ohio Day in Cleveland (R 776-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
East 73rd St.(Between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — Kaboom! Playground — Name Change —
“Mattie and Edward Gurewitz Playground “ (Ward 05) (O 816-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

960

May 22, 2013

The City Record

73

Permits
Amend Section 241.37 — Mobile Food Shops — Location Restrictions (O 435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — banners — West 65th St. (South of
Detroit Ave.) — June 7 to July 15 — Gordon Square Walk & Run — Capital Projects
(Ward 15) (O 804-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halloween Run — Oct. 26th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 774-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — extend moratorium on permits — Building and
Housing Department — Finance Department (O 801-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
OROC Run — Aug. 7th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 772-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock ‘N’ Roll Half Marathon — October 6th — Rock ‘N Roll Marathon Series/Competitor Group
(Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 818-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Steeplechase Run — Oct. 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 773-13). . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Police Division
Exercise option to renew contract with PSC Metals, Inc. for The Salvaging of Motor Vehicles
(O 1457-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917-T

Port Control Department
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 817-12 — Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255
with Inland Waters of Ohio — Aircraft Deicing Fluid Management Services
(O 695-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Section 1 of Ord. No. 956-11 — Roof and Roof System repair and replacement —
various divisions (O 676-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Additional — Three Million Eight Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Seven
Hundred Three ($3,855,703) — Enterprise Funds — Finance Department (O 794-13). . . . . .
Contract — Shelley Company for pavement repairs — Runway 6L/24 R (O 703-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. — Provide
Technical Training and Development for Employees (O 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
**MT**Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel
Selection International, Inc. (O 691-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 — Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. —
Surveying Services (O 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 — Associates, Inc. — Surveying Services
(O 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center for Families and Children
(O 696-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
Puresafety (O 689-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with Oshkosh Corporation (O 690-13) . . . . . . .
Lease Agreement — Parker Hannifin (O 704-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease Docks 28b, 30, and 32 — Cleveland Browns — Surface Parking and Staging Special
Events (O 701-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — Safety Equipment and Support Services (O 700-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wildlife Bird Exclusion Systems — contracts (O 569-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Predatory Lending
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938

Professional Services
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 732-07 & Ord. No. 51-09 — Apply and Accept Grants and Gifts from public
and private entities to facilitate Sustainability Projects — Dedicated Energy Fund
(O 727-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 817-12 — Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255
with Inland Waters of Ohio — Aircraft Deicing Fluid Management Services
(O 695-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background and Criminal Checks, Pre-Employment — Human Resources Department (O 618-13).
Bed Bug Assistance Program — contracts — Aging Department (O 673-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — public improvement contracts — Resurfacing Chester Ave. (O 746-13) . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — public improvement contracts — Resurfacing Chester Ave. (O 746-13) . . . . . . .
City Planning Commission — Amend Contract No. CT 0110 PS 2012-111 with L.A.N.D. Studio,
Inc., — Extend contract date to December 31, 2014 (O 731-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Civil Service Commission — Develop, Administer and Grade Examinations for Police and Fire
Exams (O 672-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Landmarks Commission — contract — Cleveland Restoration Society — Landmark
Survey (O 738-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services COBRA and HIPAA Program Administration — Human Resources
Department (O 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

961

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

909
942
908
911
911

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 943

The City Record

74

Consulting Services for Assistance Program Administration — Human Resources Department
(O 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. — Provide
Technical Training and Development for Employees (O 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
**MT**Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel
Selection International, Inc. (O 691-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with Big Wireless, LLC — Provide
Technical Support and Preventive Maintenance for Wireless Equipment (O 611-13). . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 — Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. —
Surveying Services (O 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 — Associates, Inc. — Surveying Services
(O 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center for Families and Children
(O 696-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
Puresafety (O 689-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with Oshkosh Corporation (O 690-13) . . . . . . . .
Finance Department — Amend Contract No. CT 1511-PS 2010-249 with Novarum, Inc. — Develop
A Wireless Broadband Network In City Hall and Public Hall (O 732-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — Amend Contract No. PS 2012-318 — Sound System Analysis
& Acoustical Engineering Services (O 766-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Safety Equipment and Support Services (O 700-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Rehabilitation, Renovation and Reconstruction — Public Works Department
(O 792-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triad Research Group — Amend Contract No. PS 2011000000022 — City Council (O 777-13) . . . . .
Utilities Department — public improvement contracts — Security and Network Security
Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — various divisions — Integrated Resources Plan (O 617-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workers’ Compensation and Actuarial Services — Human Resources Department (O 749-13) . . .

May 22, 2013
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Public Improvements
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 732-07 & Ord. No. 51-09 — Apply and Accept Grants and Gifts from public
and private entities to facilitate Sustainability Projects — Dedicated Energy Fund
(O 727-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 912-07, 591-11, 607-12, 608-12 — Add Bond Funds to The 2006 Bridge Plan
& Woodland Ave., Cedar Ave., and Fleet Ave. Improvement Projects (O 730-13). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Section 1 of Ord. No. 956-11 — Roof and Roof System repair and replacement —
various divisions (O 676-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — contracts — Resurfacing Chester Ave. (O 746-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue Area Sewer Replacement — contract — Utilities Department (WPC) (O 743-13) . .
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — contract — Utilities Department — WPC
Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — contract — Utilities Department — WPC
Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Rehabilitation, Renovation and Reconstruction — Public Works Department
(O 792-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) reconstruction — contract — Capital Projects
(Ward 18) (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reconstructing and Streetscaping East 22nd St. (From Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent —
State of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 05) (O 737-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreation Facilities, Buildings, and Structures Improvements — Public Works Department
(O 791-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets —
contracts — Capital Projects (O 705-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional services — contracts — Security and Network Security
Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd. — consent — State of Ohio -Capital Projects (Ward 11) (O 760-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — contract — Utilities Department —
WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Public Works
Accept funds from Cory Methodist Church to assist with Boiler replacement at the Church
(O 647-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add Bond Funds to funding source for paving (O 793-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
After School Hot-Meal Program, 2013-15 — Children’s Hunger Alliance (O 726-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 2 Of Ord. No. 766-09 — East 73rd St., 2970 and East 130th St., 3465 —
Property Exchange with CMSD (O 728-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 551.991 — Civil Infractions for Waste Collection and Disposal (O 819-13) . . . . . . .
Amend Section 559.239 and Enact New Section 559.246 — Korean Cultural Garden and Russian
Cultural Garden (O 487-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 46th St., 2511 — Lonnie Burten Football Field — Name Change -” The Dwayne Browder
Field “ (O 755-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Success Street —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 797-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

962

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

May 22, 2013

The City Record

75

East 51st St. (Between St. Clair And Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Dream Drive — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 798-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd St.(Between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — Kaboom! Playground — Name Change —
“Mattie and Edward Gurewitz Playground “ (Ward 05) (O 816-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Section 131.36 — Hough Multi-Service Center (Hough Ave., 8555) — Lease (Ward
07) (O 1650-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — easement — Dugway West Interceptor
Relief Sewer Project — NEORSD (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kempton Ave. (Between East 105th St. And Herrick Rd.) — Secondary and Honorary Designation
of “Michael R. White Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 800-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease City Property to County for The Frederick Douglas Farm Park (O 741-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community Development Department
(O 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Rehabilitation, Renovation and Reconstruction (O 792-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreation Facilities, Buildings, and Structures Improvements (O 791-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreational, Cultural, and Extracurricular Programs — Contract to benefit School Children —
2012-2013 — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Finance Department
(O 534-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. (Between East 49th St. to East 51st St.) — Secondary and
Honorary Designation of “Julius Brenner Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 799-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles and Apparatus, various types (O 646-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . 929
. . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . 898

. . . . . . . . . . . . 932

. . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . 943

Purchases and Supplies Division
Acquire And Re-Convey Property for chain-of-title — Euclid Ave., 900-916, Euclid Ave.,
1010 and East 9th St., 2017 — TIF For Ameritrust (O 789-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell City-Owned Property — Alden Ave. and West 159th St. — Mary Margaret Roche (Yard
Expansion) (O 751-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell City-Owned Property — Crayton Ave. and East 51st St. — Perk Company Inc., (Purposes
of Redevelopment) (O 752-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and Acquire Easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. Ltd., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and Temporary Easement — Pearl Rd., 18670 to City of Strongsville (O 434-13) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Races
Halloween Run — permit — Oct. 26th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 774-13) .
OROC Run — permit — Aug. 7th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 03) (O 772-13) . . . . .
Rock ‘N’ Roll Half Marathon — permit — October 6th — Rock ‘N Roll Marathon
Series/Competitor Group (Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 818-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Steeplechase Run — permit — Oct. 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward
03) (O 773-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

Recognition
“Caring Individuals — Stepping Out Against Breast Cancer“ (3rd Annual) (R 828-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Walgreens at 6410 Broadway Avenue (R 829-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Recreation Centers
East 46th St., 2511 — Lonnie Burten Football Field — name change — “ The Dwayne Browder
Field “ (O 755-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Resolution of Support
Adoption of The Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan — Safety Department (R 679-13)
Council Supports Neutrality to impartially review The Facts and Circumstances of the events
on Nov. 29, 2012 (R 211-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring May 20, 2013 as expand Medicaid Eligibility in Ohio Day in Cleveland (R 776-13) . . . . . .
Supporting Mandatory Labeling of Genetically Engineered Food (R 812-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to pass HR 1213, The Common Sense Housing Investment Act of 2013 (R 775-13)
Urging State of Ohio to increase enhanced mandatory Prison Terms for Crimes committed with
a Firearm (R 19-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

916
928
904
927

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 916

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Council Supports Neutrality to impartially review The Facts and Circumstances of the events
on Nov. 29, 2012 (R 211-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring May 20, 2013 as expand Medicaid Eligibility in Ohio Day in Cleveland (R 776-13) . . . . . .
Opposing House Bills 151 and 152 “Right To Work” Laws (R 782-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Mandatory Labeling of Genetically Engineered Food (R 812-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to pass HR 1213, The Common Sense Housing Investment Act of 2013 (R 775-13)
Urging State of Ohio to increase enhanced mandatory Prison Terms for Crimes committed with
a Firearm (R 19-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

963

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

916
928
928
904
927

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 916

The City Record

76

May 22, 2013

Safety Department
Adoption of The Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan (R 679-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Amend 431.03 — Overtaking, Passing to Left ; Driver’s Duties (O 518-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Amend Section 413.031 — Red Light Cameras — Contract with Xerox State & Local Solutions,
Inc., to install and maintain Automated Traffic Cameras (O 650-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Civil Service Commission — professional services — Develop, Administer and
Grade Examinations for Police and Fire Exams (O 672-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Exercise option to renew contract with PSC Metals, Inc. for The Salvaging of Motor Vehicles
(O 1457-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917-T
Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund Grant, 2012 — Grant — Ohio Office Of Criminal Justice
(O 600-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Urging State of Ohio to increase enhanced mandatory Prison Terms for Crimes committed with
a Firearm (R 19-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Vehicles and Apparatus, various types (O 646-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943

Salaries
Salary and Wage Schedules — Sections 36, 38, and 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941

Sewers
Amend Section 541.03 — Responsibility for installation and maintenance of Sewer Connections
(O 817-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue Area Sewer Replacement — public improvement contract — Utilities
Department (WPC) (O 743-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Hills Park And Martin Luther King Jr. Park — easement — Dugway West Interceptor
Relief Sewer Project — NEORSD — Public Works (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Sidewalks
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement contracts — Capital Projects (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Stadium
Port Control — Lease Docks 28b, 30, and 32 — Cleveland Browns — Surface Parking and Staging
Special Events (O 701-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

State Of Ohio
Apply & Accept A Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Fortuna Development, LLC —
Rockefeller Ave., 2525 and Transport Rd., 2655 and 2727 (O 734-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reconstructing and Streetscaping East 22nd St. (From Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — Consent —
Capital Projects (Ward 05) (O 737-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging State of Ohio to increase enhanced mandatory Prison Terms for Crimes committed with
a Firearm (R 19-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd. — consent — Capital Projects (Ward 11) (O 760-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Street Vacation
Amsterdam Rd, N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City
Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 753-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brownell Court S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 808-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rumar Drive N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (Ward 09) (R 809-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission
(Ward 13) (R 371-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916

Streets — Name
East 49th St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Success Street —
City Planning Commission — Works Department (Ward 08) (O 797-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 51st St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Dream Drive — City
Planning Commission — Works Department (Ward 08) (O 798-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 64th St. (Between St. Clair and Spilker St.) — Secondary Name of SIFCO Way — Capital
Projects (Ward 07) (O 761-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kempton Ave. (Between East 105th St. and Herrick Rd.) — Secondary and Honorary
Designation of “Michael R. White Way” — City Planning Commission — Works
Department (Ward 08) (O 800-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

964

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

May 22, 2013

The City Record

77

St. Clair Ave. (Between East 49th St. to East 51st St.) — Secondary and
Honorary Designation of “Julius Brenner Way” — City Planning Commission — Works
Department (Ward 08) (O 799-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

Tabled Legislation
Exercise option to renew contract with PSC Metals, Inc. For The Salvaging of Motor Vehicles
(O 1457-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917-T

Tax Budget
Tax Budget, 2014 — adopt and declare — Budget Commission Of Cuyahoga County (R 795-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Taxes
Amend Ord. No. 595-13 — Repeal Existing Sections 195.02 and 195.03 (O 771-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Hotel Tax — Amend Section 193.02 and 193.03 — Repeal Section 193.031 (O 597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Taxicabs
Requirements for Taxicabs & Penalties — Amend various sections of Chapter 443 — Enact
New Section 443.99 (O 598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Utilities Department
Amend Ord. No. 732-07 & Ord. No. 51-09 — Apply and Accept Grants and Gifts from public
and private entities to facilitate Sustainability Projects — Dedicated Energy Fund
(O 727-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 535.06 — Fees and Charges — Water Division (O 564-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 535.16 — Termination for nonpayment of Water or Waste Water Bill; Notice
(O 565-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 541.03 — Responsibility for installation and maintenance of Sewer Connections
(O 817-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 531.56 and 533.01 — Inspection, Approval and Repair of Fixtures and general
provisions regarding Water Service (O 563-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — Test Maintain, Fuel & Repair Fueled Backup Electrical Systems & Back Up
Computer System (O 675-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue Area Sewer Replacement — public improvement contract (WPC) (O 743-13) . . .
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — WPC
Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with Big Wireless, LLC — Provide
Technical Support and Preventive Maintenance for Wireless Equipment (O 611-13). . . . . . .
FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. for governmental aggregation service — contracts — Finance
Department (O 796-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hauling and Disposal of Water Treatment Plant Residuals — contracts — Water Division
(O 807-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — WPC
Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — public improvement contracts — Security and Network Security
Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and Temporary Easement — Pearl Rd., 18670 to City Of Strongsville (O 434-13) . .
Various Divisions — professional services — Integrated Resources Plan (O 617-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — WPC
Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Vehicles
Exercise option to renew the contract with PSC Metals, Inc. For The Salvaging of Motor
Vehicles (O 1457-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917-T
Vehicles and Apparatus, various types (O 646-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Vehicles, equipment and accessories (O 790-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Ward 01
“Caring Individuals — Stepping Out Against Breast Cancer “ (3rd Annual) —
Recognition (R 828-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Miles Ave., 13411 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1094-12 & Res. 686-13 —
liquor permit (R 759-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925

Ward 02
Lung Cancer Screening And Prevention Program — agreement — University
Health Department (Ward 02 NCF) (O 802-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 9111 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 767-13) . . . . . . . . .
Walgreens at 6410 Broadway Avenue — Recognition (R 829-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .

965

Hospital —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

The City Record

78

May 22, 2013

Ward 03
Acquire and Re-Convey Property for chain-of-title — Euclid Ave., 900-916, Euclid Ave.,
1010 and East 9th St., 2017 — TIF for Ameritrust (O 789-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Benacci, Nancy Cunningham — Congratulations (R 823-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brownell Court S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission(R 808-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coyne, Anthony J. — Congratulations (R 824-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring May 20, 2013 as expand Medicaid Eligibility in Ohio Day in Cleveland (R 776-13) . . . . . .
Economic Development — contract — The Hansa Import House, Inc., — Building at 2717 Lorain
Ave. (VPI) (O 739-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Cleveland Tech Holding LLC —
Rockwell Ave., 1425-1625 (Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone) (O 788-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halloween Run — permit — Oct. 26th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (O 774-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kahl, Jack — Congratulations (R 825-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kyle, Charles M. — Congratulations (R 826-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maynard, Robert C. — Congratulations (R 827-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
OROC Run — permit — Aug. 7th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (O 772-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock ‘N’ Roll Half Marathon — permit — October 6th — Rock ‘N Roll Marathon
Series/Competitor Group (Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 818-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and acquire easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. Ltd., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Mandatory Labeling of Genetically Engineered Food (R 812-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Synenberg, Judge Joan — Appreciation (R 831-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Steeplechase Run — permit — Oct. 19th — Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (O 773-13). . . . . .
Urging Congress to pass HR 1213, The Common Sense Housing Investment Act of 2013 (R 775-13)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

907
948
891
891
891
947

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

909
904
892
947
927

Ward 04
East 135th St., 3218 (1st Fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 768-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Sweeney, Jr., Clifford — Condolence (R 822-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Ward 05
East 46th St., 2511 — Lonnie Burten Football Field — Name Change - “The Dwayne Browder
Field” (O 755-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd St.(Between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — Kaboom! Playground — Name Change —
“Mattie and Edward Gurewitz Playground “ (Ward 05) (O 816-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 3551-55 (Patio) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1028-12 —
liquor permit (R 814-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Sister Gussie — Appreciation (R 830-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reconstructing and Streetscaping East 22nd St. (From Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent —
State of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 05) (O 737-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell City-Owned Property — Crayton Ave. and East 51st St. — Perk Company Inc., (Purposes
of Redevelopment) (O 752-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walgreens at 6410 Broadway Avenue — Recognition (R 829-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Ward 06
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Davis, William Daniel (R 821-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Ward 07
East 64th St. (Between St. Clair and Spilker St.) — Secondary Name of SIFCO Way — Capital
Projects (O 761-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Amend Contract No. 35112 — Eliza Bryant Village — Discount
prepayments of its UDAG Loan — Addison Rd., 1380 (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Section 131.36 — Hough Multi-Service Center (Hough Ave., 8555) — Lease (O 1650-12) .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Ward 08
East 49th St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Success Street —
City Planning Commission — Works Department (O 797-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 51st St. (Between St. Clair and Superior Ave.) — Secondary Name of Dream Drive — City
Planning Commission — Works Department (O 798-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kempton Ave. (Between East 105th St. and Herrick Rd.) — Secondary and Honorary designation
of “Michael R. White Way” — City Planning Commission — Works Department (Ward 08)
(O 800-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

966

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

May 22, 2013

The City Record

79

St. Clair Ave. (Between East 49th St. To East 51st St.) — Secondary and
Honorary designation of “Julius Brenner Way” — City Planning Commission — Works
Department (O 799-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
St. Clair Ave., 3400 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res 622-13 —
liquor permit (R 770-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Ward 09
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Rumar Drive N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (R 809-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Ward 10
Youth Summer Jobs Program — agreement — Youth Opportunities Unlimited — Community
Development Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 803-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

Ward 11
Amsterdam Rd, N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City
Planning Commission (O 753-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 783 (Rear and Patio) and East 185th St., 779 (1st Fl. and Bsmt.) — withdraw
objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res 1495-12 — liquor permit
(R 763-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd. — consent — State of Ohio -Capital Projects (O 760-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1124-12 — liquor permit
(R 769-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 7763-71 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1090-12 — liquor permit
(R 764-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3868 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 813-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1081-12 and Res. 684-13 —
liquor permit (R 765-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walgreens at 6410 Broadway Avenue — Recognition (R 829-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Ward 13
West 28th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 371-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916

Ward 15
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — banners — West 65th St. (South of
Detroit Ave.) — June 7 to July 15 — Gordon Square Walk & Run — Capital Projects
(O 804-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Rock ‘N’ Roll Half Marathon — permit — October 6th — Rock ‘N Roll Marathon
Series/Competitor Group (Ward(s) 03, 15) (O 818-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

Ward 16
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 25-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Ward 17
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
West 117th St., 3934 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1131-12 — liquor permit
(R 815-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

967

The City Record

80

May 22, 2013

Ward 18
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. To West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 572-13) . . . .
Johnson, Jr., Johnnie B. — Condolence (R 820-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) Reconstruction — public improvement contract —
Capital Projects (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

Ward 19
Lorain Ave. and W. 147th St. — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 810-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Sell City-Owned Property — Alden Ave. and West 159th St. — Mary Margaret Roche (Yard
Expansion) (O 751-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Amend Section 551.991 — Civil Infractions for Waste Collection and Disposal (O 819-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Water Division
Amend Sections 531.56 and 533.01 — Inspection, Approval and Repair of Fixtures and general
provisions regarding Water Service (O 563-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hauling and Disposal of Water Treatment Plant Residuals — contracts — Utilities Department
(O 807-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Amend Section 535.06 — Fees and Charges (O 564-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Amend Section 535.16 — Termination for nonpayment of Water or Waste
Water Bill; Notice (O 565-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 936

Water Pollution Control Division
Amend Section 541.03 — Responsibility for installation and maintenance of Sewer Connections
(O 817-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — Utilities
Department (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Weatherization Program
Amend Ord. No. 1582-12 — Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2012 — Grant — Ohio
Development Services Agency (O 733-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2013 — Grants — Ohio Development Services Agency
(ODSA) (O 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908

Zoning
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67 Pl.) —
Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 18)
(O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. and W. 147th St. — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 19) (O 810-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Zoning Code
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — extend moratorium on permits — Building and
Housing Department — Finance Department (O 801-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

968

