The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Twenty-Third, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
3
Board of Control
3
Civil Service
5
Board of Zoning Appeals
5
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
6
Public Notice
6
Public Hearings
6
City of Cleveland Bids
7
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
7
Committee Meetings
14
Index

14

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5172

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Reed.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:

2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.

Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
NO MEETING

THE CALENDAR

NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

January 16, 2013
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 16,
2013 at 10:45 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Withers, Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Cross,
Directors
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Others:
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:

79

Resolution No. 27-13.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and
Board of Control Resolutions No. 2810, adopted January 27, 2010 and No.
109-11, adopted March 23, 2011, the
City entered into a contract with
SBC Global Services, Inc. dba AT&T
Services,
Contract
No.
Global
PS2010*50, for professional maintenance and technical support services
and licenses necessary to implement
and maintain the Verint System and
the Cisco System software products;
and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 CO. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with a software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain
the
software
products,
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into a two-year agreement
with AT&T Corp. to renew the necessary software licenses and to continue to obtain the professional software maintenance and technical
support services necessary to maintain the Verint System, for two
years starting March 1, 2013; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid for maintenance and support services to be
performed under the contract with
AT&T Corp. for the two-year term
starting March 1, 2013, shall not
exceed $271,447.10.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Cross,
Directors
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 28-13.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 68-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 10, 1998, as amended by
Ordinance No. 94-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 1, 1999, and Board of Control

4
Resolution No. 140-02, adopted March
27, 2002, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Public Utilities, entered into City Contract No.
59797 with PerkinElmer Labworks,
Inc. for professional services for a
laboratory information management
system, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., and Board of
Control Resolution No. 1-10, adopted
January 6, 2010, the City entered
into a contract with PerkinElmer
Health Sciences, Inc., City Contract
No. PS2010-074 to obtain the licenses
necessary for the PerkinElmer LabInformation
Management
oratory
System (LIMS) software and the
professional services necessary for
upgrades, support, and maintenance
for the LIMS software for three
years starting January 1, 2010, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with a software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain
the
software
system,
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
PerkinElmer Health Sciences, Inc.
to renew the necessary software
licenses for the PerkinElmer Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) software and to continue to obtain the professional services necessary for support and
maintenance for the LIMS software
for three years starting January 1,
2013; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid for license fees
and for maintenance and support
services to be performed under the
contract with PerkinElmer Health
Sciences, Inc. for the three-year term
starting January 1, 2013, shall not
exceed $129,150.00.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Cross,
Directors
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 29-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 830-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
July 11, 2012 the firm Vic Thompson
Company (“Consultant”) is selected
upon nomination of the Director of
Port Control from a list of qualified

The City Record

January 23, 2013

persons or firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services for the
In-Line Baggage System project for
the Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Vic Thompson Company for the
above-mentioned
services,
based
upon its proposal dated November 6,
2012 which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to Vic
Thompson Company for the services
authorized
shall
not
exceed
$849,996.00
for
the
preliminary
design phase (30%), and shall contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the
following subconsultants by Vic
Thompson Company is approved:

as the firm of consultants available
to be employed by contract to supplement
the
regularly
employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to provide professional services necessary to provide financial
consulting services, for a period of
one
year,
with
three
one-year
options to renew, for the Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Peregrine Advisors, LLC for
the above-mentioned services, based
upon its proposal dated July 11,
2012, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to
Peregrine Advisors, LLC for the services authorized shall not exceed
$300,000.00, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subconsultants
by
Peregrine Advisors, LLC is approved:

Subcontractor

Subconsultant

DBE%
Amount

G&T Associates, Inc.

4.26%
$31,211.00

McGuiness Unlimited

2.55%
$21,641.00

Van Auken Akins Architects
LLC
7.20%
$61,187.00
Sandhu & Associates

4.94%
$41,981.00

TransSolutions

2.68%
$22,747.00

Michael Baker Jr., Inc.

Non-DBE
$90,532.00

Solar Testing Laboratories,
Inc.
Non-DBE
$
0.00
InNovTec

Non-DBE
$25,976.00

Stadelman Associates, Inc.

Non-DBE
$48,315.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Cross,
Directors
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 30-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 816-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, the firm of Peregrine
Advisors, LLC (“Consultant”), is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control

80

Percentage
Amount

Penn and Associates, Inc.
8.33% CSB/FBE
$25,000.00
Dingus and Daga, Inc.
3.33% CSB/MBE
$10,000.00
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Cross,
Directors
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 31-13.
By Director Flask.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
City of Cleveland, through the Director of Public Safety, entered into an
agreement with Kronos Incorporated, City Contract No. 58817, for a
time and attendance workforce system, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, enhancements, and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Kronos Incorporated to obtain the
professional maintenance and technical support services necessary to
maintain the timekeeping system,
for the Division of Police, for a period of twelve months starting March
5, 2013; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., the compensation to be paid for

The City Record

January 23, 2013
maintenance and technical support
services to be performed under the
above-mentioned prospective agreement with Kronos Incorporated is
fixed at an amount not to exceed
$58,186.03.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Cross,
Directors
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-1: 1717 East 9th
Street (Ward 3)
1717 East 9th Street LLC, owner,
and the K&D Group, prospective
purchaser, appeal for change of use
from
a
commercial
building
of
approximately 21 stories to a use for
223 dwelling unit apartments on
acreage located in an E5 General
Retail Business District; contrary to
the regulations under Sections 357.04
and 357.08(b)(2) a front yard depth
of zero is proposed where 20 feet is
required by the regulation for 15%
lot depth and not to exceed 30 feet;
and no rear yard is proposed, contrary to the requirement for 15% of
the lot, or not less than 20 feet, or

5

less than one-half the building
height that equals 191 feet; and the
maximum lot area coverage allowed
is 24,750 and 362,607 square feet of
gross floor area is proposed, contrary to the provisions under Section
355.04 in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-2 2136 West 5th
Street (Ward 3)
Dick and Adrienne Gray, owners,
appeal to erect a 21' x 88'-7" threestory frame, single family residence
on a 25' x 100' parcel in a B1 MultiFamily District; proposing a maximum gross floor area of 1,407.7
square feet contrary to Section
355.04(a) that allows 1,346 square
feet; and subject to the provisions
for yard space regulations, no building shall be erected less than 10 feet
from a main building on an adjoining lot and 4'.11" is proposed and
the total interior side yards equal 4
feet contrary to the requirement for
10 feet; and a rear yard depth of 33
feet equal to the height of the main
building is required in accordance
with Section 357.08(b)(1) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-4: 3033 Central Avenue (Ward 5)
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appeals to erect an 8' x 4' double faced, non-illuminated ground
sign on acreage located in a C1
Multi-Family District; requesting an
overall height of 7'-10" from grade
contrary to a maximum height of 5
feet allowed in a residence district,
pursuant to the Schedule of Permitted Types, Number, Area and Height
Table in the provisions under Section 350.13(a) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-5: 1626 East 33rd
Street (Ward 8)
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation, owner, and Wonton Gourmet LLC. appeal to erect a
20' x 33'-7" one-story frame, three
car garage proposed with lot consolidation to be added to an existing, non-conforming single family
residence located on a 24' x 100'
parcel in a B1 Two-Family District;
contrary to the yard space regulations under Sections 357.0(b)(1) and
357.09(2)B in the Cleveland Zoning
Code, a rear yard depth of 17 feet
is proposed and not less than 24 feet
is required; the minimum width of
interior side yards is zero and a
minimum of 3 feet is required.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Tuesday, January 22, 2013, the following appeals
were scheduled for hearing before
the Board.
The following appeals were APPROVED:

81

Calendar No. 12-223: 1885 West 58th
Street
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse in split zoning between C1
Multi-Family and B1 Two-Family
Districts.
Calendar No. 12-224: 5727 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-225: 5739 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-226: 5729 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-227: 5731 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-228: 5733 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-229: 5735 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-230: 5737 Bridge
Avenue
Case Development LLC appealed
to construct a fee simple townhouse
in split zoning between C1 MultiFamily and B1 Two-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 12-231: 5409 Bridge
Avenue
Silverstar
Ohio
Holdings
LLC
appealed to change a one family to
a two family residence in a B1 TwoFamily District; subject to modified
site plan.
Calendar No. 12-203: 718 University
Court
Mark Ebner appealed to erect a
two-story, frame attached garage
and second floor room addition to a
single family dwelling in a B1 TwoFamily District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 12-222: 3610 Superior
Avenue
3620 Superior Avenue LLC appealed for expansion of use within
an existing restaurant/bar to include entertainment (dance) use in
a Semi-Industry District.

The City Record

6
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 12-209: 12905 Bellaire
Road
Sameer Shanni appealed to construct an addition to an existing
glass contractor business in a Local
Retail Business District.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 12-171: 3951 Rocky
River Drive scheduled for January 28, 2013 postponed to February 25, 2013.
Calendar No. 13-02: 2136 West 5th
Street scheduled for February 4,
2013 postponed to March 11, 2013.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on January 14, 2013 was
adopted and approved on January
22, 2013:

Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, January 30, 2013, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 842-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of land on the
southwest side of Turney Road
between Warner Rd. and Macomb
Avenue as shown shaded on the
attached map to a Two Family Residential District and a ‘B’ Area District. (Map Change No. 2397, Sheet
Number 6).

Violation Notice

Ord. No. 843-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of land on the south side
of the intersection of Warner Road
and Turney Road as shown shaded
on the attached map to Open Space
and Recreation (Map Change No.
2396, Sheet Number 6).

Calendar No. 12-221: 4019-21 Brooklyn
Avenue
Diane Stiver appealed from a decision rendered by the City of Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau,
Waste Collection and Photo Safety
Division for failure to comply with
Section 551.111(B); penalty reduced
to $250.00.

Ord. No. 844-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands located on the east
side of Warner Road south of Turney Road to Grand Division Avenue
from General Retail to Local Retail
(Map Change No. 2398, Sheet Number 6).

The following appeal heard by the
Board on October 22, 2012 was adopted and approved on January 22,
2013.

Ord. No. 1085-12.
By Council Member Miller.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land on the north side of
Coit Road between E. 140th Street
and E. 141 Street to Residence Office
(Map Change No. 2404; Sheet No. 7).

The following
PROVED:

The following
PROVED:

appeal

appeal

was

was

AP-

AP-

Calendar No. 12-169: 2927 Bridge
Avenue
Heck’s Properties, LLC appealed
for an addition to an existing café
in a C1 Local Retail Business District; subject to condition.

Ord. No. 1401-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating
Immaculate
Conception
Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings as a Cleveland Landmark.

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 30, 2013
1:00 p.m.

Ord. No. 1402-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Judge Jean Murrell
Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller
Park as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1403-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating North Presbyterian Church
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1404-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Sidney Hillman Memorial Building (Amalgamated Clothing
Workers Union of America), also
known as the Norma Herr Women’s
Center, as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1419-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the northeast corner of E. 63rd Street and Waterman
Avenue from Two Family Residential to Open Space and Recreation
(Map Change Number 2406).

82

January 23, 2013
Ord. No. 1420-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the north side of
Regent Road and south side of Temple Avenue from Two Family Residential or Semi-Industry and a ‘2’
Height District to an Open Space
and Recreation Use District and a
‘1’ Height District (Map Change
Number 2407).
Ord. No. 1424-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land fronting on Engel
Avenue northeasterly from Broadway Avenue to Two Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Map
Change Number 2411).
Ord. No. 1425-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of land fronting
on the north side of Ovington
Avenue between E. 65 St. and E. 66
St. Two Family Residential and a
‘B’ Area District (Map Change Number 2412).
Ord. No. 1461-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of land located
on the northeast side of Broadway
Avenue between Wire Avenue and
Jones Road to Local Retail Business
District and a ‘B’ Area District (Map
Change Number 2417).
Ord. No. 1462-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the east side of
E.
49th
Street
south
of
Chard
Avenue to Two Family Residential
(Map Change Number 2424).
Ord. No. 1463-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of land located
on the south side of Morgan Avenue
and on the north side of Regent
Road to Residence Industry District
and a ‘1’ Height District (Map
Change Number 2418).
Ord. No. 1464-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District and Height District of lands
located between E. 55 St. and E. 49th
Street
known
as
Morabito
Site
shown on the attached map to SemiIndustry and a ‘3’ Height District
(Map Change Number 2420).
Ord. No. 1465-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the north side of
Dolloff Road at its intersection with
Barkwill Avenue to approximately
E. 55 St. as shown on the attached
map to Local Retail Business District (Map Change Number 2421).
Ord. No. 1466-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
bounded by Blanche Avenue, E. 55th
Street, Ackley Road, Mound Avenue
and E. 53 St. as shown shaded on
the attached maps to Two Family
Residential, a ‘B’ Area District and

January 23, 2013
a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change
Number 2422).
Ord. No. 1467-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of lands located on the east
side of E. 55th Street at Lufkin
Avenue as shown shaded on the
attached map to Multi-Family Residential District (Map Change Number 2426).
Ord. No. 1470-12.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of land on the
south
side
of
Morgan
Avenue
between at E. 68th Street to E. 75th
Street to Two Family Residential
and a 1 Height District (Map
Change Number 2413).
Ord. No. 1471-12.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height District of lands on
the north and south sides of Broadway from I77 to Marble Avenue and
Union Avenue from E. 65 St. to E.
82nd St. is changed to a Local Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District
and a ‘2’ Height District as shown
on the attached maps (Map Change
Number 2416).
Ord. No. 1594-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance desigUniversity
Circle
United
nating
Methodist Church (formerly known
as Epworth-Euclid Church) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1595-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Sarah Redman Apartments as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1596-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Park Lane Villa as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1597-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating
Judson
Manor
(formerly
known as Wade Park Manor) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
January 16, 2013 and January 23, 2013

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and

The City Record
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

7
rized by Ordinance No. 1691-12,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 3, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
DOLLARS
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
OR A MONEY ORDER
CHECK
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 2013
AT 10:00 A.M. LOCATED AT
ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM,
4TH FLOOR, 1201 LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
January 23, 2013 and January 30, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2013
File No. 2-13 — East 72nd Street (SR
283) Resurfacing, PID 89197 (St.
Clair Avenue to North Marginal
Road), for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Project, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 53212, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
*THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 2013
AT 10:00 A.M. LOCATED AT
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM
518, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
January 23, 2013 and January 30, 2013
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013
File No. 3-13 — East 9th Street
Cleaning and Structural Lining,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as autho-

83

Ord. No. 27-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizsupplemental
lease-purchase
ing
agreements, and other agreements
relating to the lease-purchase of the
Cleveland Stadium; approving supplemental trust agreements and the
issuance of refunding certificates of
participation
or
conversion
and
remarketing of variable rate certificates of participation; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 305-96 passed by the Council of
the City on March 8, 1996, and for
the purpose of acquiring by leasepurchase the Cleveland Stadium, the
City signed and delivered a LeasePurchase Agreement dated as of
June 1, 1997 (as amended and supplemented, the “Facility Lease”)
between
the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority (the “Authority”), as lessor, and the City, as
lessee, and approved a Trust Agreement dated as of June  1,  1997 (as
amended
and
supplemented,
the
“Trust Agreement”), between the
Authority and U.S. Bank National
Association,
as
trustee
(the
“Trustee”), pursuant to which the
Trustee signed and delivered various series of Certificates (as defined
in the Trust Agreement), each such
series of Certificates evidencing proportionate interests in Base Rent
(as defined in the Facility Lease) to
be paid by the City pursuant to the
Facility Lease; and
Whereas, under the Trust Agreement, Additional Certificates (as
defined in the Trust Agreement)
may, with the approval of the City,
be issued to pay the cost of refunding Outstanding Certificates (as
defined in Section 1); and

8
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance of
Additional Certificates (“Refunding
under
the
Trust
Certificates”)
Agreement, or the conversion of the
interest rate on and remarketing of
Outstanding Certificates, to refund
or restructure Outstanding Certificates and corresponding Base Rent
payments, as provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the refinancing of securities
of the City and providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health or safety
in that authorizing the refunding
and restructuring of Outstanding
Certificates and related credit support, hedging arrangements and
other agreements is necessary to
enable the City to respond to market conditions on a timely basis to
obtain debt service savings or to
stabilize interest rates or to minimize risks of increased interest
expense or increased risks, burdens,
or other costs associated with hedging arrangements or credit support
instruments in connection with the
lease-purchase of the Cleveland Stadium, to mitigate burdensome schedules of Certificate Payments and
corresponding Base Rent payments
or to remove, avoid or mitigate
unduly restrictive covenants or costs
of funding or maintaining reserves;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Existing Trust Agreement and
Existing Facility Lease (as defined
in this Section), the following words
and terms shall have the following
meanings unless the context or use
indicates a contrary meaning or
intention:
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby securities purchase
agreement or other credit enhancement, support or liquidity device
used to enhance or provide for the
security or liquidity of any Certificates or any Hedge Agreements.
“Existing Facility Lease” means
the
Lease-Purchase
Agreement
dated as of June  1,  1997, as supplemented and amended by the First
Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as of September 15, 1999,
the Second Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2001, the Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as of October 1, 2007, the Fourth Supplemental
Lease-Purchase
Agreement
dated
May 29, 2008, and the Fifth Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement
dated as of April 1, 2010, each
between the Authority, as lessor,
and the City, as lessee.
“Existing Ground Lease” means
the Ground Lease dated as of June
1, 1997, as supplemented and amended
by
the
First
Supplemental
Ground Lease dated as of September
15, 1999, the Second Supplemental
Ground Lease dated as of December
1, 2001, and the Third Supplemental
Ground Lease dated as of April 1,
2010, each between the City, as
lessor, and the Authority, as lessee.

The City Record
“Existing
Trust
Agreement”
means the Trust Agreement dated
as of June 1, 1997, as supplemented
and amended by the First Supplemental Trust Agreement dated as of
September  15,  1999, the Second Supplemental Trust Agreement dated as
of October 1, 2007, the Third Supplemental Trust Agreement dated
May 29, 2008, and the Fourth Supplemental Trust Agreement dated as
of April 1, 2010, each between the
Authority and the Trustee.
“Facility Lease” means the Existing Facility Lease, as to be supplemented and amended from time to
time by a Supplemental Lease.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, in
connection with any Certificates or
any Hedge Agreements.
“Ground Lease” means the Existing Ground Lease, as to be supplemented and amended from time to
time by a Supplemental Ground
Lease.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchaser” means, with
respect to each series of Refunding
Certificates, the party or, collectively, parties identified as such in the
Purchase Agreement for that series.
“Outstanding Certificates”, as used
in this Ordinance, means Certificates issued and outstanding from
time to time under the Trust Agreement. On the date of introduction of
this Ordinance, the Outstanding Certificates (and the respective principal amounts then currently outstanding) consisted of the following
series of Certificates: Series 1999
($2,395,706.00);
and
Series
2010
($121,210,000.00).
“Purchase
Agreement”
means,
with respect to the issuance of
Refunding Certificates, the purchase
agreement, commitment or other
written agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser or a representative of that Original Purchaser setting forth the terms for
the purchase by the Original Purchaser of those Refunding Certificates.
“Purchase
Price”
means,
with
respect to a series of Refunding Certificates, the amount specified in the
Purchase Agreement for that series
to be paid by the Original Purchaser for the purchase of those Refunding
Certificates,
provided
that
amount shall be not less than (i)
97% of the amount determined by
adding to the aggregate principal
amount of the Refunding Certificates any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount
any
aggregate
original
issue discount and any premium or
other costs of any Credit Support
Instrument purchased from the proceeds of the Refunding Certificates,
plus (ii) any accrued interest on the
Refunding Certificates from their
date to the date of their delivery to
the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Certificates” means the
Outstanding Certificates identified
in a Supplemental Trust Agreement
as the Certificates to be refunded
with the proceeds of Refunding Certificates.

84

January 23, 2013
“Refunding
Certificates”
means
the Certificates authorized by this
Ordinance to be issued as Additional Certificates under the Trust
Agreement in one or more series for
the purpose of refunding one or
more series of Outstanding Certificates or designated portions thereof.
“Series 1999 Certificates” means
the Certificates of Participation,
Series 1999 (Cleveland Stadium Project), issued under the Trust Agreement on September 29, 1999.
“Series 2010 Certificates” means
the Refunding Certificates of Participation, Series 2010 (Cleveland
Stadium Project), issued under the
Trust Agreement on April 22, 2010.
“Supplemental
Ground
Lease”
means each Supplemental Ground
Lease,
and
any
Amended
and
Restated
Supplemental
Ground
Lease or Amended and Restated
Ground Lease between the City and
the Authority, delivered to supplement and amend the Ground Lease,
in connection with the issuance of
one or more series of Additional Certificates or the remarketing of any
Outstanding Certificates or the contracting
for
or
termination
or
replacement of any Hedge Agreement or Credit Support Instrument
relating to any Certificates.
“Supplemental Lease” means each
Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement, Amended and Restated Supplemental
Lease-Purchase
Agreement, or Amended and Restated
Lease-Purchase Agreement between
the Authority and the City, delivered to supplement and amend the
Facility Lease, in connection with
the issuance of one or more series
of Additional Certificates or the
remarketing of any Outstanding
Certificates or the contracting for or
termination or replacement of any
Hedge Agreement or Credit Support
Instrument relating to any Certificates.
“Supplemental Trust Agreement”
means
each
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement, Amended and Restated
Supplemental Trust Agreement, or
Amended and Restated Trust Agreement between the Authority and the
Trustee, delivered to supplement
and amend the Trust Agreement, to
provide for the security and terms
of one or more series of Additional
Certificates or the remarketing of
any Outstanding Certificates or the
contracting for or termination or
replacement of any Hedge Agreement or Credit Support Instrument
relating to any Certificates.
“Trust
Agreement”
means
the
Existing Trust Agreement, as to be
supplemented and amended from
time to time by a Supplemental
Trust Agreement.
“Trustee” means the bank or trust
company at the time serving as
Trustee under the Trust Agreement,
currently U.S. Bank National Association.
Section 2. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a) Public Purpose. The acquisition, financing and refinancing by
the City of the Cleveland Stadium
pursuant to the Ground Lease, the
Facility Lease and the Trust Agreement and the use of the Cleveland
Stadium as a source of public relaxation and entertainment served and

January 23, 2013
serves a proper public municipal
purpose.
(b) Supplemental Ground Lease,
Supplemental Lease, Supplemental
Trust Agreement and Refunding
Certificates. It is necessary, proper
and in the best interest of the City
to authorize one or more Supplemental Ground Leases, Supplemental Leases and Purchase Agreements and approve one or more Supplemental Trust Agreements and the
issuance of Refunding Certificates
in one or more series for the purpose of refunding one or more series
of the Outstanding Certificates or
designated portions thereof, (i) to
obtain aggregate net present value
savings in Certificate Payments and
corresponding Base Rent payments
of at least three percent (3%), (ii)
that are short-term or variable-rate
obligations and that the Director of
Finance has determined, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, are subjecting the City to
Base Rent payments the interest
components of which include undesirably high rates of interest or
undesirable fluctuations in rates of
interest, or risks or expenses associated with hedging arrangements
or credit support instruments that
can economically be avoided or mitigated through refinancing, or (iii)
to eliminate or modify covenants
that are unduly restrictive, or to
obtain a more favorable Base Rent
payment schedule or more favorable
terms under credit support instruments.
Separate series of Refunding Certificates may be issued at the same
or
different
times.
A
Purchase
Agreement, Supplemental Lease and
Supplemental Trust Agreement shall
be delivered for each series and may
be delivered for multiple series. A
Supplemental Ground Lease shall be
delivered for any series of Refunding Certificates with a final maturity later than the final maturity of
the then Outstanding Certificates.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates and signing and delivery of Supplemental Ground Leases,
Supplemental Leases and Purchase
Agreements and approval of Supplemental Trust Agreements in connection with such issuance for the
purpose provided in this Ordinance
serves a proper, public, municipal
purpose by reducing or stabilizing
or minimizing risks of increasing
the costs to the City of the leasepurchase of the Cleveland Stadium
which is a source of public relaxation and entertainment for the people of the City of Cleveland.
(c) Leased Premises. The Council
of the City found and determined at
the time of the authorization of the
Existing
Facility
Lease
and
approval of the Existing Trust
Agreement and the Outstanding Certificates, and hereby reaffirms, that
the Leased Premises are essential to
the proper, efficient and economic
operation of the City.
Section 3. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements.
This
Council
finds that by engaging in interest
rate hedging arrangements with
respect to the Facility Lease and
Certificates the City may reduce its
financing costs by optimizing the
relative amounts of fixed and vari-

The City Record
able rate obligations, or minimizing
the risk of variations in its financing costs, or minimizing any risks,
burdens or costs associated with
existing hedging arrangements, or
obtaining savings by confirming
rates of interest on Certificates in
advance of their issuance. To permit
the City to have the flexibility to
undertake, with respect to the Facility Lease and Certificates, interest
rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate
collar and other hedging transactions, from time to time, and to
establish the procedures for approving those transactions, this Council
authorizes the signing and delivery
of one or more agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”), and any related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The terms of those Hedge
Agreements may vary from the
terms of any existing Hedge Agreements. The authorizations in this
Section are supplemental to and not
in derogation of any authority provided by any other ordinance of this
concerning
hedging
Council
arrangements.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be subject
to appropriation and certification as
provided in the Facility Lease.
Those payments may be secured by
the Facility Lease, to the extent permitted by the Trust Agreement, all
as determined by the Director of
Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the
City to make payments under any
Hedge Agreement does not and
shall not represent or constitute a
general obligation, debt, bonded
indebtedness or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the City or the State
of Ohio. Nothing gives any party to
any Hedge Agreement the right to
have excises, ad valorem or other
taxes levied by the City or the State
of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to the Facility
Lease or any Certificates issued or
to be issued under the Trust Agreement, the Director of Finance may
authorize one or more interest rate
hedge transactions in accordance
with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that the term of each
hedge transaction shall not exceed
the final maturity of the Certificates
to which the hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the payments made or to be
made by the counterparty to the
City, or by the City to the counterparty, shall be fair value for the
Hedge
Agreement,
considering,
among other things, the credit of
the City, the credit of the counterparty and the terms and conditions
of the Hedge Agreement. The Director of Finance shall determine the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement, including without limi-

85

9
tation, the rates to be paid by the
counterparty to the City and by the
City to the counterparty under the
Hedge Agreement, the time or times
and procedures for the exercise by
the counterparty or the City, as the
case may be, of any option under
the Hedge Agreement, and whether
the obligations of the City under the
Hedge Agreement shall be secured
by a Credit Support Instrument and,
if so, the terms and conditions of
such Credit Support Instrument. The
approval of each interest rate hedge
transaction
by
the
Director
of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of the applicable Hedge Agreement
by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to enter into amendments
or modification or novation of or to
terminate in whole or in part any
Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement
if
the
Director
of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the City’s best interests
will be served by such amendment,
modification, novation or termination. Any payments owed by the
City upon such amendment, modification, novation or termination may
be
paid
from
the
proceeds
of
Refunding Certificates or from Fund
Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF
001 or from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
In the event the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Facility Lease or
the Trust Agreement in connection
with any Hedge Agreement or any
amendment, modification, novation
or termination of any Hedge Agreement, the Mayor and the Director of
Finance are authorized to sign and
deliver a Supplemental Lease and to
signify approval of the Supplemental Trust Agreement, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law. The Director of Finance
is further authorized to develop,
adopt and revise such policies and
procedures
as
the
Director
of
Finance reasonably concludes are
necessary for the evaluation, incurrence,
maintenance,
monitoring,
administration,
legal
compliance
and reporting of any Hedge Agreements.
Section 4. Credit Support Instruments. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract from time to
time for one or more Credit Support
Instruments for any series of Outstanding Certificates or any Hedge
Agreement if the Director determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that the
Credit
Support
Instruments
will
result in savings to the City, will
stabilize interest rates or minimize
the
risk
of
increased
interest
expense or increased risks, burdens,
or other costs associated with hedging arrangements or reserve requirements relating to those Certificates.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to agree to the amendment, replacement, assignment or
termination of any such contract if
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a

10
Financial Advisor, that the City’s
best interests will be served by such
amendment,
replacement,
assignment or termination. In the event
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the
Ground Lease, Facility Lease or the
Trust Agreement in order to permit
the use of or to amend, replace,
assign or terminate a Credit Support
Instrument, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
to sign and deliver a Supplemental
Ground Lease or a Supplemental
or
both
and
to
signify
Lease
approval of the Supplemental Trust
Agreement, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law.
The cost of obtaining, amending,
replacing, assigning or terminating
each
Credit
Support
Instrument,
except to the extent paid by the
Original Purchaser in accordance
with the Purchase Agreement or the
remarketing agent in accordance
with a remarketing agreement, shall
paid
from
the
proceeds
of
be
Refunding Certificates or the proceeds of remarketing or from Fund
Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF
001 or from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. Refunding of Certificates;
Escrow
Agreements.
The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, one or more
escrow agreements between the City
and the Trustee, as escrow trustee,
providing for, among other matters:
the
investment
and
holding
in
escrow of the proceeds of Refunding
Certificates to be applied to the
refunding of Refunded Certificates;
the
application
of
the
moneys
derived from those investments to
the payment of the Certificate Payments on Refunded Certificates, and
the irrevocable call for redemption
of Refunded Certificates to be called
for redemption prior to maturity.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to each
escrow agreement from proceeds of
Refunding Certificates to the extent
available and then from Fund Nos.
11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF 001
or from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. Provision shall be made in
each escrow agreement to give the
Trustee
any
written
notice
of
redemption required under the Trust
Agreement. The Director of Finance
and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, shall sign
all documents and take all other
actions necessary or appropriate on
the part of the City to effect each
such refunding in accordance with
the Trust Agreement and to cause
the Refunded Certificates to be
deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention
of an independent public accounting
firm to verify the mathematical
accuracy of the calculations relating
to the escrow. Upon the issuance
and delivery of a series of Refunding Certificates, the Trustee and the
City are authorized to disburse from

The City Record
the Funds established and maintained under the Trust Agreement
such amounts of moneys as are in
excess of the balances required by
the Trust Agreement to then be
maintained in those Funds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
give written notice to the Trustee of
the call for redemption of the
Refunded Certificates on the earliest redemption date following the
issuance of the Refunding Certificates, pursuant to the Trust Agreement and the applicable escrow
agreement.
Section 6. Determination of Base
Rent and Terms of Refunding Certificates; Application of Proceeds.
(a) Principal Components and
Term. Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is in furtherance of one
or more of the purposes set forth in
Section 2(b) of this Ordinance that
one or more series of Refunding Certificates be issued to refund Outstanding Certificates, the Director of
Finance is authorized to negotiate
and provide for the terms of the
Refunding Certificates and the Base
Rent, as amended pursuant to a Supplemental Lease, including the final
Lease Term, and the annual and
aggregate principal components of
Base Rent. The principal amount of
each series of Refunding Certificates and the corresponding principal component of Base Rent is to be
the amount set forth in the Purchase Agreement for that series and
shall be the amount determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary (i) to pay
the costs of refunding the Refunded
Certificates,
(ii)
to
fund
any
reserves required under the Trust
Agreement, (iii) to pay costs of any
Credit Support Instruments, (iv) to
pay identified amounts owed under
Hedge Agreements, (v) to pay interest on the Refunding Certificates,
and (vi) to pay costs of issuing the
Refunding Certificates. The Refunding Certificates of each series shall
mature on the dates and in the
respective principal amounts set
forth in the Purchase Agreement for
that series, consistent with this
Ordinance and the Trust Agreement.
(b) Interest. The Refunding Certificates may be issued as obligations bearing interest at fixed or
variable interest rates, based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance as to the financial advantage to, and best interests of, the
City, as specified in the Purchase
Agreement.
If
the
Director
of
Finance so determines that Refunding Certificates shall be issued as
obligations bearing interest at variable rates, then the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the Refunding Certificates are to be determined
(whether by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise) shall be set forth in the
applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement; provided that no Refunding
Certificates shall bear interest at a
rate in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year (including any
Refunding Certificate held by a
provider of a Credit Support Instrument). The Director of Finance may

86

January 23, 2013
determine that the terms of a variable rate series of Refunding Certificates may or may not permit the
holders to tender their variable rate
Refunding Certificates for purchase
by the City. If the Director of
Finance designates any series of
Refunding Certificates as variable
rate Certificates, and if the holders
of that series of Refunding Certificates are to be entitled to tender
those Certificates for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate in the Purchase Agreement for those variable rate Certificates (and may designate others,
from time to time, in substitution
therefor), the tender agent or agents
(which may be the Trustee) and the
remarketing agent or agents (which
may be an Original Purchaser),
which designations shall be based
on the determination of the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements with others in connection with the delivery of the
Refunding Certificates, and from
time to time thereafter so long as
the Refunding Certificates are outstanding, as may be determined by
the Director of Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for
(i) the method of determining the
variable interest rates, (ii) the
rights and procedures for tender,
(iii) liquidity or credit support, (iv)
repayment by the City of any
amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument, (v) the direct
purchase of tendered Refunding Certificates, and (vi) other arrangements in the best interests of the
City. The Director of Finance is further authorized to terminate any
such agreements if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the City’s best interests
will be served by such termination.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to enter into agreements,
from time to time so long as the
variable rate Refunding Certificates
are outstanding, supplementing or
amending the applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement for a series
of Refunding Certificates as provided in Section 9. The Director of
Finance is authorized to pay any
fees associated with agreements
entered into or terminated pursuant
to this Section from proceeds of
Refunding Certificates, to the extent
permitted by the Trust Agreement
or from Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF
601 and 01 SF 001 or from other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
(c) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Refunding Certificates of each series, and the corresponding principal component of
Base Rent, may be subject to
redemption prior to maturity at the
option of the City, if and to the
extent set forth in the Purchase
Agreement for that series. Any
Refunding
Certificates
so
deter-

January 23, 2013
mined to be subject to optional
redemption and maturing by their
stated
terms
after
the
earliest
optional redemption date shall be
subject to redemption at the option
of the City on or after the earliest
optional redemption date in whole
or in part on any date at the
redemption prices set forth in the
Purchase Agreement and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Trust Agreement. Refunding
Certificates that are subject to
optional redemption may be subject
to purchase by the City in lieu of
optional redemption to the extent
provided in the applicable Supplemental
Trust
Agreement.
The
Refunding Certificates designated
in the Purchase Agreement as term
Certificates subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption shall be
redeemed prior to maturity on each
mandatory redemption date designated in the Purchase Agreement in
the aggregate amount of the sinking fund installment to be paid on
such mandatory redemption date, all
as provided in the Purchase Agreement and in accordance with the
Supplemental Trust Agreement.
(d) Credit Support and Other
Instruments.
The
Director
of
Finance, regardless of whether a
series
of
Refunding
Certificates
bears interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for
one or more Credit Support Instruments, if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instruments will
result in a savings in the cost of the
financing to the City. The costs of
such Credit Support Instruments
may be paid from proceeds of
Refunding Certificates or from Fund
Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and 01 SF
001 or from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
(e) Base Rent. The City acknowledges that the aggregate principal
amount of Outstanding Certificates
shall be based on the aggregate
principal component of Base Rent
under the Facility Lease and that
the interest on the Certificates shall
be based on the interest components
of Base Rent. The Base Rent to be
payable under and in accordance
with the Facility Lease during any
Lease Term shall be an amount sufficient to cover the amount of Certificate Payments on the Outstanding Certificates that are due and
payable during that Lease Term,
and such Base Rent shall be specified or determined in an exhibit to
the Facility Lease; provided, however, that the City’s payment of Base
Rent and Additional Rent is Subject
to Appropriation and Certification
as provided in the Facility Lease
and nothing in the Facility Lease,
the Certificates, the Trust Agreement, or any Hedge Agreement constitutes or shall constitute a pledge
by the City, or an obligation of the
City, of any taxes or other moneys
to the payments due thereunder.
(f) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Original Purchaser, a disclosure
document is appropriate relating to
the initial offering of one or more

The City Record
series of Refunding Certificates, the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
City and in that officer’s official
capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate with the Original Purchaser in
the preparation of, and the making
modifications,
completions
or
of
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto
in connection with the initial offering of the applicable series of
Refunding Certificates, and (iv)
sign certificates, statements or other
documents in connection with the
finality, accuracy and completeness
of that disclosure document. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of any disclosure statements, including by printed and electronic means.
(g) Continuing Disclosure. If and
to the extent required by Rule 15c212 promulgated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
or by a Purchase Agreement in connection with the sale of one or more
series of Refunding Certificates or
by a remarketing agreement in connection with remarketed Certificates, then, for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners from
time to time of the Refunding Certificates, the City agrees to provide
or cause to be provided such financial information and operating data,
audited financial statements and
notices of the occurrence of certain
events, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of Securities
and Exchange Commission Rule
15c2-12 (the “Rule”). For that purpose, the Director of Finance is
authorized on behalf of the City to
sign and deliver continuing disclosure agreements, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, between the City and
the Trustee. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver
any related agreements, certificates
and other instruments, and to establish procedures in order to ensure
compliance by the City with its continuing
disclosure
agreements,
including timely provision of information and notices as described
above. The performance of that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it.
(h) Application for Ratings. If, in
the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on Refunding Certificates by one or more
nationally-recognized rating agencies is necessary or desirable for
marketing purposes, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, and
to provide information as may be
required in support of those applications for the purpose. The cost of
obtaining each such rating, except
to the extent paid by the Original
Purchaser in accordance with the
Purchase Agreement, shall be paid
from the proceeds of the Refunding
Certificates to the extent available

87

11
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
(i) Application of Proceeds; Costs
of Issuance. The proceeds from the
sale of the Refunding Certificates
shall be deposited and applied as
provided in the Supplemental Indenture and for the purposes stated in
this Ordinance and are appropriated
for those purposes. Costs of issuing
the Refunding Certificates that are
not paid from those proceeds may be
paid from Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11
SF 601 and 01 SF 001 or from other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose, as determined by the
Director of Finance.
Section 7. Sale of the Refunding
Certificates; Purchase Agreements.
The Director of Finance may sign
and deliver one or more Purchase
Agreements for Refunding Certificates setting forth the conditions for
delivery of the Refunding Certificates that are consistent with this
Ordinance and the Trust Agreement
and that are determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for lease certificates of participation issued by
governmental
entities,
including,
without limitation, representations
as to the accuracy and completeness
of information contained in the disclosure document described in Section 6 of this Ordinance. The Purchase Agreement shall provide for
the sale of the applicable series of
Refunding Certificates to the Original Purchaser selected by the Director of Finance and identified in the
Purchase Agreement, based on an
evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Refunding Certificates or
the terms upon which the Original
Purchaser has agreed to purchase
the Refunding Certificates.
Each Purchase Agreement shall
set forth the following, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance
and the Trust Agreement:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of Refunding Certificates
issued;
(b) the Purchase Price for the
Refunding Certificates;
(c) whether any Refunding Certificates are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and,
if so, the earliest optional redemption date for those Refunding Certificates subject to prior redemption,
which shall be not later than ten
years from the first interest payment date of the applicable series,
and the applicable redemption price,
which shall be not greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed;
(d) the dates on which principal
of the Refunding Certificates is to
be paid, which shall be not later
than thirty-five (35) years from
their respective dates of issuance,
with an identification of whether
the payment is due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund
redemption of Refunding Certificates of a particular maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Certificates bearing
interest at a fixed rate, the weighted average of which shall not

12
exceed eight percent (8%) as to
Refunding Certificates of any series,
and the method by which the interest rate is to be determined for
Refunding
Certificates
bearing
interest at variable rates, consistent
with Section 6;
(f) the particular Outstanding
Certificates or portions thereof to be
Refunded Certificates;
(g) the title and series designation for the Refunding Certificates;
(h) the amount, if any, and source
of any money to be deposited in the
Reserve Account in order to cause
the balance therein to equal the
Reserve Requirement, if and to the
extent required by the applicable
Supplemental Trust Agreement, and
any determination as to whether
there shall be a special reserve fund
for the Refunding Certificates of
any series, separate from the common Reserve Account, or a surety or
insurance policy, bank letter or line
of credit, or other form of credit or
liquidity
facility
enhancing
the
security for Refunding Certificates
of that series in lieu of a funded
reserve fund;
(i) whether any Refunding Certificates are to be secured by or
from
a
Credit
Support
payable
Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Certificates and the
corresponding terms of Base Rent as
so determined within the limitations
set forth in this Ordinance and as
so specified and set forth in the Purchase Agreement will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
Section 8. Remarketing. In the
event that the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is advantageous to the City to
convert the interest on any Outstanding Certificates bearing interest at variable rates to fixed interest rates for a period of time or to
maturity or to convert the interest
on any Outstanding Certificates or
Refunding Certificates to a different
variable rate period or mode, or to
terminate or take other actions with
respect to any existing Credit Support Instrument that will require a
tender and remarketing of any Outstanding
Certificates
under
the
Trust Agreement (such conversion
or other actions and the tender and
remarketing
being
collectively
referred to in this Section as “remarketing”), the City shall undertake
the remarketing of those Certificates in accordance with the Trust
Agreement. In connection with any
remarketing
of
Certificates,
the
Director of Finance is authorized to
take such actions as the Director
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, will
facilitate the remarketing of the
Certificates or otherwise be in the
best interests of the City, including
without limitation, obtaining one or
more Credit Support Instruments,
terminating
any
Credit
Support
Instrument, and entering into agreements with one or more purchasers
for their direct purchase of the
remarketed Certificates in lieu of a
public offering of the Refunding
Certificates by a remarketing agent.
In the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written

The City Record
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is necessary in connection with
the remarketing to supplement or
amend
the
Facility
Lease,
the
Ground Lease or the Trust Agreement in order to address current
market conditions or to permit the
use of or to terminate a Credit Support Instrument or to otherwise
obtain
financing
arrangements
advantageous to the City, the Mayor
and the Director of Finance are
authorized to sign and deliver a
Supplemental Lease and a Supplemental Ground Lease and to signify
approval of the Supplemental Trust
Agreement, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to satisfy any special
reserve fund requirement for any
series of Certificates then Outstanding under the Trust Agreement by
the deposit of a Credit Support
Instrument in lieu of cash, as permitted and more specifically provided in the Trust Agreement, and to
apply cash released from such special reserve fund to the payment of
costs of remarketing. To the extent
the costs of remarketing are not
paid from any cash released from
such special reserve fund, those
costs may be paid, as determined by
the Director of Finance, from the
proceeds of remarketing or from
Fund Nos. 11 SF 600, 11 SF 601 and
01 SF 001 or from other money lawfully available and appropriated or
to be appropriated for that purpose.
The Director of Finance is authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with
any remarketing under the same
terms and conditions as set forth in
Section 6 of this Ordinance with
respect to the issuance of Refunding
Certificates.
The
Director
of
Finance or other officer of the City,
as appropriate under the Charter, is
authorized to take such actions or
cause to be taken such actions as
are necessary to obtain and maintain the desired tax status of any
Outstanding Certificates, and the
covenants and authorizations in Section 10 of this Ordinance shall apply
to any converted Certificates. The
Director of Finance and other City
officials, as appropriate under the
Charter, are authorized to sign and
deliver such instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Section. The Director of Finance, the
Director of Law and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of
the City to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for
the remarketing of Certificates and
to take all actions necessary to
effect the remarketing of Certificates under the terms of this Ordinance, the Facility Lease and the
Trust Agreement. The Clerk of
Council or other official of the City,
as appropriate under the Charter,
shall furnish the Trustee a true
transcript of proceedings certified
by the Clerk or other official, of all
proceedings had with reference to
the
remarketing
of
Certificates
along with such information for the
records as is necessary to determine
the validity of the remarketing.

88

January 23, 2013
Section 9. Authorization of Supplemental Ground Leases, Supplemental Leases and Supplemental
Trust Agreements; Additional Documents.
In
connection
with
the
issuance of any series of Refunding
Certificates, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized,
in the name and on behalf of the
City, to sign and deliver one or more
Supplemental Leases and, if necessary or appropriate in connection
with that issuance, one or more Supplemental Ground Leases, and to
signify approval of one or more Supplemental Trust Agreements, approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, and not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
the Purchase Agreement. The determination by those officers that a
Supplemental Lease, Supplemental
Ground Lease or Supplemental Trust
Agreement is not inconsistent with
this Ordinance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery of that Supplemental Lease, Supplemental Ground Lease or Supplemental Trust Agreement by those
officers. Subject to the Facility
Lease as theretofore amended, any
Supplemental Lease may contain
amendments to the Facility Lease,
as theretofore amended, and, subject
to the Trust Agreement as theretofore amended, any Supplemental
Trust
Agreement
may
contain
amendments to the Trust Agreement, as theretofore amended, to
permit the City increased flexibility
for the use of financial or credit
structures
and
techniques
determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be in the best
interests of the City. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver a continuing covenant agreement or similar agreement with an
Original Purchaser in connection
with its direct purchase of Refunding Certificates in lieu of a public
offering of Refunding Certificates,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor that entering into
such agreement is in the best interests of the City.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as
appropriate under the Charter, are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Ordinance, the
Purchase Agreements, the Supplemental Ground Leases, the Supplemental Leases, the Supplemental
Trust
Agreements,
the
Ground
Lease, the Facility Lease, the Trust
Agreement, the escrow agreements
and the Hedge Agreements.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate
under the Charter, are authorized to
make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of each series
of Refunding Certificates to the
Original Purchaser and to take all
actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of
each series of Refunding Certificates under the terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Leases, the

January 23, 2013
Supplemental Ground Leases, the
Supplemental Trust Agreements, the
Purchase Agreements and the Trust
Agreement. The Clerk of Council or
other official of the City, as appropriate under the Charter, shall furnish the Original Purchaser a true
transcript of proceedings certified
by the Clerk or other official, of all
proceedings had with reference to
the issuance of the Refunding Certificates along with such information for the records as is necessary
to determine the regularity and
validity of the issuance of the
Refunding Certificates.
Section 10. Tax Covenants. Upon
the determination of the Director of
based
on
the
written
Finance,
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that all or a portion of a series
of Refunding Certificates or remarketed
Certificates
be
issued
or
remarketed as obligations the interest on which is excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes or as obligations that provide
for federal tax credits to the holders or issuers thereof, the Director
of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or
any other officer having responsibility for the issuance of Refunding
Certificates or remarketing of Certificates, is, alone or in conjunction
with any of the foregoing or with
any other officer or employee of the
City, authorized to cooperate with
the Original Purchaser or remarketing agent and the Trustee by making, on behalf of the City, such
covenants and representations in the
Facility Lease as are appropriate
and necessary to achieve and maintain the desired tax treatment or
status of the Facility Lease and the
Certificates.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
the issuance of Refunding Certificates or remarketing of Certificates
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Facility Lease and the
Certificates as the City is permitted
to or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment
or status of the Facility Lease and
the Certificates or the interest components thereof or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the intended tax status of
the Facility Lease and the Certificates, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript for

The City Record
the Certificates, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds from the sale of the
Certificates, the facts, circumstances
and estimates on which they are
based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax status of
the Facility Lease and the Certificates.
The City hereby covenants it will
take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest components of Base
Rent and interest on the Certificates
to achieve and maintain the intended treatment and status for federal
income tax purposes and that it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that treatment and status.
Each covenant made pursuant to
this Section with respect to a series
of Certificates is also made with
respect to all issues any portion of
the principal of or interest on which
is paid from proceeds of that series
of Certificates (and, if different, the
original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure the tax status of
the Certificates of that series, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take
with respect to the Certificates of
that series.
Section 11. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance or to negotiate any Hedge
Agreements.
The
Director
of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained. Any Financial Advisor or
consultant
employed
under
the
authority of this Ordinance shall be
disinterested in the transaction and
be independent of the underwriters
or counterparties and any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 12. Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of
Finance is authorized to appoint a
successor Trustee in the event that
the current Trustee, U.S. Bank,
National Association, shall resign or
be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting
as Trustee under the Trust Agreement, or in case it shall be taken
under the control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver
appointed by a court, in accordance
with the Trust Agreement.
Section 13. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 14. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Cer-

89

13
tificates or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, certificates of
indebtedness,
other
obligations,
indentures, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 15. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the
City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council.
Section 16. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 18. Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire three years
from the effective date of this Ordinance. If a Purchase Agreement for
Refunding Certificates or agreement
for the purchase of remarketed Certificates is entered into or a preliminary disclosure document is distributed with respect to Refunding
Certificates or remarketed Certificates under the authority of this
Ordinance at any time within the
three-year period following its effective date, then the authority granted by this Ordinance shall not
expire as to those Refunding Certificates or remarketed Certificates.
The Director of Finance shall notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this
Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any Refunding Certificates or conversion and remarketing
of Certificates under the authority
of this Ordinance.
Section
19.
Refinancing.
This
Council finds and determines that
this is an Ordinance providing for
the refinancing of bonds, notes or
other securities of the City within
the meaning of Section 64 of the
City Charter.
Section 20. Emergency. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 14, 2013.
Effective January 14, 2013.

The City Record

14
Ord. No. 63-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to name
the skate park located at 1785 Merwin on the east bank of the Cuyahoga
River
in
the
Flats
the
“Crooked River Skate Park”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of the
skate park located at 1785 Merwin on
the east bank of the Cuyahoga River
in the Flats shall be the “Crooked
River Skate Park” and that the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized and directed to
take the necessary action to affect
the naming of, and to post the proper signs at, the skate park.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 14, 2013.
Effective January 14, 2013.

Ord. No. 65-13.
By Council Members Miller and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 615-12,
passed April 30, 2012, relating to
the West 3rd Street lift bridge
repairs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 615-12, passed April 30,
2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
make a written contract with Zenith
Systems L.L.C., based upon its April
11, 2012 proposal, as amended April
18, 2012, for the immediate purchase
of labor, equipment, and materials
necessary to repair the West 3rd
Street lift bridge, including all components, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis, for the
Office of Capital Projects, for an
estimated cost of $2,138,286.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 615-12, passed April
30, 2012, is repealed.

January 23, 2013
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 14, 2013.
Effective January 14, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Wednesday, January 23, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Conwell,
Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins,
Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley,
Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Bridges
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (Ward 03) (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
In-Line Baggage System Project consulting — per Ord. 830-12 to Vic Thompson Company —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 29-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Board of Control — Police Division
Time and attendance workforce system maintenance and technical support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 — Kronos Incorporated — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Financial consulting services — per Ord. 816-12 to Peregrine Advisors, LLC (BOC Res. 30-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
In-Line Baggage System Project consulting — per Ord. 830-12 to Vic Thompson Company —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 29-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Financial consulting services — per Ord. 816-12 to Peregrine Advisors, LLC — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 30-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
In-Line Baggage System Project consulting — per Ord. 830-12 to Vic Thompson Company —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 29-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) maintenance and support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 to PerkinElmer Health Sciences, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 28-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

90

January 23, 2013

The City Record

15

Time and attendance workforce system maintenance and technical support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 — Kronos Incorporated — Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Verint System and Cisco System software maintenance and technical support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 to AT&T Corp. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 27-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Time and attendance workforce system maintenance and technical support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 — Kronos Incorporated — Division of Police (BOC Res. 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) maintenance and support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 to PerkinElmer Health Sciences, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 28-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Verint System and Cisco System software maintenance and technical support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 to AT&T Corp. (BOC Res. 27-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Board of Control — Water Division
Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) maintenance and support — per C.O. Sec.
181.102 to PerkinElmer Health Sciences, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 28-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bellaire Road, 12905, (Ward 17) — Sameer Shann, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 2927, (Ward 3) — Heck’s Properties, LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-169) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Bridge Avenue, 5409, (Ward 15) — Silverstar Ohio Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal heard on
1/22/13 (Cal. 12-231). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5727, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5729, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5731, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5733, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5735, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5737, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bridge Avenue, 5739, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13
(Cal. 12-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Brooklyn Avenue, 4019-21, (Ward 13) — Diane Stiver, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-221) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Rocky River Drive, 3951, (Ward 19) — Bethesda Lutheran Home, owner — appeal postponed to
2/25/13 on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Superior Avenue, 3610, (Ward 8) — 3620 Superior Avenue, LLC, owner — appeal dismissed on
1/22/13 (Cal. 12-222). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
University Court, 718, (Ward 3) — Mark Ebner, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/13 (Cal. 12-203) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
West 58th Street, 1885, (Ward 15) — Case Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on
1/22/13 (Cal. 12-223). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
West 5th Street, 2136, (Ward 3) — Dick and Adrienne Gray, owners — appeal postponed to
3/11/13 on 1/22/13 (Cal. 13-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Central Avenue, 3033, (Ward 5) — Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner — appeal
to be heard on 2/4/13 (Cal. 13-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
East 33rd Street, 1626, (Ward 8) — Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation, owner
and Wonton Gourmet, LLC — appeal to be heard on 2/4/13 (Cal. 13-05) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
East 9th Street, 1717, (Ward 3) — 1717 East 9th Street LLC, owner and K&D
Group, prospective purchaser — appeal to be heard on 2/4/13 (Cal. 13-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

91

The City Record

16

January 23, 2013

Capital Projects
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (Ward 03) (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90

Contracts
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (Ward 03) (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90

City of Cleveland Bids
East 72nd Street (SR 283) resurfacing project (St. Clair Avenue to North Marginal Road) —
Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord.
532-12 — bid due January 14, 2013 (advertised 1/23/2013 and 1/30/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
East 9th Street distribution water main cleaning and structural lining — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1691-12 — bid due February 20, 2013
(advertised 1/23/2013 and 1/30/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

City Planning
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts (Ward 12) (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward
12) (O 1461-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District (Ward 10) (O 1085-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1462-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward 12)
(O 1464-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast Corner) — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1419-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1424-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District (Ward 02) (O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1402-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark (Ward 08)
(O 1597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward(s)
05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North Side) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward 12)
(O 1463-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts (Ward 12)
(O 1425-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 — PPN 119-20-001 / 022 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Regent Road (North side) and Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District (Ward 12)
(O 1420-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 1595-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts (Ward 02)
(O 842-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District (Ward 02) (O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Finance Department
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

92

January 23, 2013

The City Record

17

Landmark Commission
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 1402-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 — PPN 119-20-001 / 022 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1595-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Lease Agreement
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Public Hearing (Notices)
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1461-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10) (O 1085-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning Commission — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1462-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts- City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1464-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1419-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1424-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts At Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 1402-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North side) — Change Use and Height District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1463-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

93

The City Record

18

January 23, 2013

Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1425-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 — PPN 119-20-001 / 022 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Regent Road (North side) and Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1420-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1595-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 842-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 02)
(O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Public Works
Merwin Ave., 1785 — Name The Skate Park — The “Crooked River Skate Park” (Ward 03) (O 63-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . 90

Purchases
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Stadium
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Ward 02
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 842-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Ward 03
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Merwin Ave., 1785 — Name The Skate Park — The “Crooked River Skate Park” (O 63-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90

Ward 05
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Ward 08
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts At Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1402-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (O 1597-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 — PPN 119-20-001 / 022 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 1595-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

94

January 23, 2013

The City Record

19

Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Ward 10
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1085-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Ward 12
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1461-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning Commission — City
Planning Commission (O 1462-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1464-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1419-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1424-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North side) — Change Use and Height District — City Planning
Commission (O 1463-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1425-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Regent Road (North side) and Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (O 1420-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Zoning
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1461-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10) (O 1085-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning Commission — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1462-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1464-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1419-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1424-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

95

20

The City Record

January 23, 2013

Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North Side) — Change Use and Height District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1463-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1425-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Regent Road (North side) and Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1420-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 842-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 02)
(O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

96

