The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the First, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

21

Board of Control

21

Civil Service

26

Board of Zoning Appeals

29

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
30
Public Notice

32

Public Hearings

32

City of Cleveland Bids

32

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

33

Committee Meetings

41

Index

41

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44108
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5186

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY APRIL 29, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Mitchell.

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 623-13.
From
James
Hartley,
Acting
Director, Department of Finance,
City of Cleveland — Notification of
intent to issue Airport System Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A. Received.
File No. 624-13.
From
Jane
Fumich,
Director,
Department of Aging, City of Cleveland — Notification of acceptance of
a grant from Cleveland Foundation.
Received.
PLATS
File No. 628-13.
Dedication Plat — Garden Valley
Home Estates Revitalization Phase
I, East 72nd Street, East 72nd Place,
Rouse Avenue, Bell Avenue.
Approved by Committees on City
Planning and Public Service.
Without objection, Plat approved.
Yeas 18. Nays 0.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 29, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Mamie
Polensek, Zack Reed, Martin J.
Sweeney,
Jay
Westbrook
and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief of Government Affairs
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief
of Education Monyka S. Price, Chief
of Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Bender, Smith,
Wasik, Butler, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Rybka, Southerington, Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich, and Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Associate Minister Alecia Hayes,
Bethany
Christian
Church
DLC,
Cleveland, Ohio (Ward 6). Pledge of
Allegiance.

697

File No. 629-13.
Partition and Dedication Plat —
Innerbelt Bridge relocation and new
construction — East 9th Street
Extension, Pittsburgh Avenue, Commercial Road, Broadway Avenue,
S.E.
Approved by Committees on City
Planning and Public Service.
Without objection, Plat approved.
Yeas 18. Nays 0.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 625-13.
RE: #2403479 C1 C2 — Transfer
Ownership Application — Eastside
Grocery, Inc., 3218 East 135th Street,
(Ward 4). Received.
File No. 626-13.
RE: #4969802 D5J — New License
Application — Lago Flats LLC, 1091
West
10th
Street.
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 627-13.
RE: #5950070 Liquor Agency Contract Application — Miles Management Corp., 4127 East 131st Street.
(Ward 2). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 636-13—Lula Mae Sullivan.
Res. No. 637-13—Willie Starkey.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 638-13—Ruth Ann Higgins.
Res. No. 639-13—John Morrison, Jr.
Res. No. 640-13—Helen L. Womack.
Res. No. 641-13—Douglas F. Moltz.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 642-13—Mayor Daniel S.
Pocek.
Res. No. 643-13—Zion Evangelical
Lutheran Church — 170th Anniversary.
Res. No. 644-13—Greg Johnson.
Res. No. 645-13—Sandra Lee Flowers.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 597-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 193.02 and 193.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
252-A-83, passed June 15, 1983, relating to transient occupancy tax definitions and purpose, rate and application of tax; and to repeal Section
193.031, as amended by Ordinance
No. 682-09, passed May 18, 2009, relating to expansion of levy and additional purpose of tax.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 193.02 and
193.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 252-A-83, passed June
15, 1983, are amended to read as follows:
Section 193.02 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) Administrator” means the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses or his or her authorized representative.
(b) “Hotel” means every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to be a
place where lodging is offered to
guests, in which five (5) or more
rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests, whether such
rooms are in one (1) or several structures.
(c)
“Transaction”
means
the
amount paid, or to be paid, by, or on
behalf of, a transient guest to a hotel;
or where no such consideration is
paid by, or on behalf of, such a transient guest, the maximum actual rate
in effect on the date of the transaction
for such lodging as posted pursuant
to RC 3731.16.
(d) “Transient guest” or “Transient
guests” means a person or persons
occupying a room or rooms for lodging for less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
(d) “Vendor” means the person who
is the owner or operator of the hotel
and who furnishes the lodging.
Section 193.03 Purpose, Rate and
Application of Tax
(a) There is hereby levied an excise
tax of three percent (3%) on transactions by which lodging by a hotel is,

or is to be, furnished to transient
guests.
(b) The excise tax levied under this
chapter shall provide revenue for the
purposes of general municipal operations, procurement of fixed assets or
permanent improvements, payment of
debt charges, the elimination of
deficits in City funds and for all other
lawful purposes. To carry out such
purposes, the receipts of the tax
levied under this chapter shall be
deposited to the credit of the General
Fund.
(c) The tax, which shall be known
as the transient occupancy tax,
applies and is collectible at the time
the lodging is furnished, regardless
of the time when the price is paid. The
tax shall not apply to transactions by
which lodging is furnished to:
(1) the Federal government, the
State or any of its political subdivisions; or
(2) a person maintaining occupancy for a period of thirty (30) or more
consecutive days; provided, however,
that for purposes of this division,
where an occupant is not a natural
person, such occupant shall be
deemed the non-natural occupant’s
employee, agent, guest, or other
authorized individual registered with
the hotel for lodging. No occupancy
may be used in combination with the
occupancy of another, regardless of
the source of payment, to exempt a
transaction under this section.
(d) For the purpose of the proper
administration of this chapter and to
prevent the evasion of the tax, it shall
be presumed that all lodging furnished by hotels in the City to transient guests is subject to the tax until
the contrary is established.
Section 2. That existing Sections
193.02 and 193.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 252-A-83,
passed June 15, 1983, and Section
193.031 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 682-09, passed May 18,
2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That the amendment and
the repeal under this ordinance of
existing Sections 193.02, 193.03, and
193.031 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, as enacted and
amended by various ordinances, shall
be effective June 1, 2013.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 598-13.
By
Council
Members
Keane,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections
443.01,
443.011,
443.05,
443.051, 443.11, 443.131, 443.14, 443.17,
443.20, 443.37, and 443.38, as amended by various ordinances relating to
taxicabs; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 443.99, relating to penalties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

698

May 1, 2013
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following:
Section 443.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 1828-78, passed June 12,
1978;
Section 443.011, as amended by Ordinance No. 2459-A-91, passed December
14, 1992;
Section 443.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 278-93, passed June 14, 1993;
Section 443.051, as amended by Ordinance No. 995-2000, passed December
4, 2000,
Section 443.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29,
1976,
Section 443.131, as amended by Ordinance No. 1828-77, passed June 8, 1978,
Sections 443.14 and 443.17, as
amended by Ordinance No.1684-76,
passed June 29, 1976,
Section 443.20, as amended by Ordinance no. 2393-03, passed February 3,
2003, and
Sections 443.37 and 443.38, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1820-06,
passed December 11, 2006,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 443.01 Jurisdiction
The licensing and inspection of
public hacks, the inspecting and sealing of taximeters, the examining of
applicants for a license to drive such
public hacks, and the licensing of drivers, as hereinafter provided, and the
enforcing of the provisions of this
chapter shall be under the control of
the Division of Assessments and
Licenses, through its Commissioner,
or his designee.
Section 443.011 Definitions
As used in this chapter, certain
terms are defined as follows:
(a) “Association” means a society,
whether incorporated or not, organized for the purpose of benefitting a
group of not less than twenty-five
(25) owners of public hacks by providing for its members, dispatching
services, a uniform and distinctive
color scheme, and collection and
maintenance of operating records.
(b) “Company” means any person,
partnership or corporation owning
twenty-five (25) or more public hacks
having a uniform distinctive color
scheme.
(c) “Driver” means the person in
actual physical control of a public
hack.
(d) “Independent operator” means
any owner to whom either of the following applies:
(1) Is the owner of less than twenty-five (25) public hacks;
(2) Does not provide his or her own
dispatching services.
(e) “Owner” means any natural person, partnership or corporation having legal or equitable title to a public
hack and includes lessors.
(f) “Public hack” or “Hack” means
any public vehicle whose owner or
driver secures or accepts passengers
for hire on the public streets, or in
public or quasi-public places, including, but not limited to, hotels as
defined by Section 363.08, and excepting carriages as defined in division
(a) of Section 447.01 and vehicles
operated by the Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority.
Section 443.05 Inspection Prior to
Licensing Vehicles; Fee
(a) No license shall be granted for a
vehicle over two (2) years old, except
that an existing license for a vehicle

May 1, 2013
not more than five (5) years old may
be renewed if the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses determines, after careful inspection of the
vehicle, that it is in a thoroughly safe
condition for the transportation of
passengers, clean, fit, of good appearance, and well painted. For purposes
of this section, the age of the vehicle
shall be determined by comparing the
calendar year in which the application for license is being considered to
the model year of the vehicle.
(b) When licenses or renewals of
existing licenses are issued for any
public hacks which may have been
disabled, disqualified, sold or may
otherwise not be available at the time
of the granting of such licenses, no
such vehicle which may thereafter be
acquired for use in connection with
any such licenses shall be placed in
operation until it has been thoroughly
and carefully inspected and examined and found to be in a thoroughly
safe condition for the transportation
of passengers, clean, fit, of good
appearance and well painted. The
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses
shall
thereafter
make
inspections of such vehicles at least
semiannually and may make inspections more frequently at his or her discretion.
(c) The Commissioner shall refuse
to permit the operation of any vehicle
found by him or her to be unfit or
unsuited for public patronage or to
which a taximeter or acceptable radio
receiver and transmitter is not
affixed. He or she shall examine any
taximeter attached to any public hack
and see that the same is accurate
before permitting the use thereof
upon any public hack which may be
placed in operation. The Commissioner is authorized and empowered to
establish reasonable rules and regulations for the inspection of public
hacks and their appurtenances, construction and condition of fitness.
(d) The Commissioner is authorized to charge and collect an inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
hour, or any portion thereof, for any
inspection performed under this section.
Section 443.051 Required Equipment for Taxicabs
(a) Each taxicab shall be equipped
with at least one (1) of the following:
(1) A safety partition meeting the
requirements of division (b) to completely separate the driver from the
passenger section of the taxicab, and
power windows and door locks that
can be operated by the driver; or
(2) A surveillance camera or cameras meeting the requirements of division (c); or
(3) A safe meeting the requirements of division (d).
The Commissioner shall inspect
each taxicab for compliance with
these requirements as part of the
vehicle inspections conducted pursuant to Section 443.05.
(b) All safety partitions installed
in taxicabs shall meet the following
design standards, and such additional
requirements as may be established
by regulation:
(1) The partition shall be constructed of a bullet-resistant material;
(2) The partition shall be designed
to prevent a person in the passenger
compartment from reaching the driver;
(3) The partition shall be designed
to afford the driver safe rearview
vision;

The City Record
(4) The design of the partition shall
allow for ventilation and heat to the
passenger compartment of the vehicle;
(5) The partition shall be designed
to enable the driver to collect payment without leaving the vehicle, by
use of a change slot, sliding partition,
or similar means;
(6) The partition shall not contain
any sharp edges or sharp points that
may injure the driver or passengers.
(c)
All
surveillance
cameras
installed in taxicabs shall be suitable
in design and placement to record the
actions of the driver and passengers
and, without limiting the scope of this
requirement, suitable in design and
placement to record acts or attempted
acts of violence or criminal conduct.
The camera(s) shall meet such additional requirements as may be established by regulation.
(d) All safes installed in taxicabs
shall be suitable in design to provide
a taxicab driver with the ability to
deposit money in a safe that may not
be removed from the taxicab and may
only be opened under limited circumstances so as to protect the driver of
the taxicab. The safe shall meet any
additional requirements that may be
established by regulation. Each taxicab driver with a safe shall possess no
more than ten dollars ($10.00) in cash
and a sign shall be posted conspicuously stating, “Driver carries no more
than $10.00 in cash.” Such sign shall
be legible from the interior and exterior of the taxicab.
(e) Equipment necessary to enable
the driver to accept and process credit and debit card payments for all
fares and charges due.
(f) No taxicab company, association or independent operator shall
increase its drivers’ lease rates for
the cost of compliance with this section. Any increase in drivers’ expenses that may otherwise be allowable
under Section 443.261 may not be
implemented unless the taxicab company, association or independent
operator first certifies to the Commissioner by affidavit that the costs of
compliance with this section will not
be borne by the taxicab drivers. The
Commissioner may require the taxicab company, association or independent operator to produce books and
records to demonstrate compliance
with this division.
(g) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is hereby authorized to issue such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, as the Commissioner deems necessary to carry out
the provisions of this section, including equipment specifications, card
payment processing rules, and regulations related to credit card surcharges. Such rules and regulations
shall become effective ten (10) days
after their publication in the City
Record.
Section 443.11 Inspection Time and
Reports; Fee
The Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses shall maintain constant
vigilance over all public hacks, to see
that they are kept in a condition of
continued fitness for public use. To
this end, the Commissioner, through
his or her inspectors, shall periodically inspect all public hacks, or on the
complaint of any citizen, as often as
may be necessary. The Commissioner
is authorized to set any number of
mandatory inspections at such times

699

5
and places as determined by the Commissioner for purposes of inspection.
Failure to submit to a required inspection shall result in the revocation of
license. The Commissioner is authorized to set the standards of any
inspection conducted under this chapter. Copies of such standards shall be
made available seven (7) days before
the inspection, and upon request. The
Commissioner is authorized to charge
and collect an inspection fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per hour, or any portion thereof, for any inspection performed under this section. Reports in
writing of all inspections shall
promptly be made to the Commissioner.
Section 443.131 Convictions Which
Bar Issuance of Drivers’ License
No driver’s license shall be issued if
the applicant has been convicted of
any of the following offenses:
(a) Manslaughter, or negligent
homicide, resulting from the operating of a motor vehicle;
(b) Driving a motor vehicle while
under the influence of intoxicating
liquors or drugs. Any conviction
under this subsection shall not be a
bar to the issuance of a license if the
conviction occurred more than five
(5) years prior to the date of application; or upon a recommendation of the
Commissioner more than three (3)
years from the date of application for
a license;
(c) Any felony in the commission of
which a motor vehicle was used;
(d) Failure to stop and render aid
as required under the laws of this
State, or leaving the scene of an accident as specified by the laws of this
State;
(e) Perjury or false swearing in
making any statement under oath in
connection with his or her application
for driver’s license;
(f) Conviction, or forfeiture of bail,
not vacated, upon three (3) charges of
a violation of the motor vehicle laws
of this state that are classified or
determined by the Commissioner to be
moving violations, within the most
recent twelve month period;
(g) Conviction of the violation of
any law involving violence, theft or
any form of stealing, or any crime
involving moral turpitude that is reasonably related to the license referred
to herein, within five (5) years preceding the filing of the application
for such license;
(h) Repeated violations of the City
ordinances, which affect the safety of
human life or limb on the streets of
the City;
(i) Possession by a taxicab operator within his or her taxicab of opened
or unopened beer, whiskey or wine, or
of drugs or other stimulants not
specifically prescribed for him or her
by a medical doctor for his or her private use, or of gambling equipment or
paraphernalia, stolen goods or any
contraband property of any kind.
Section 443.14 Examination of Drivers
(a) Each applicant for a driver’s
license under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be examined by a person designated by the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses as to his
or her knowledge of the provisions of
this chapter, the City Traffic Code,
and the geography of the City. Each
applicant must, if required by the
Commissioner, demonstrate his or her
skill and ability to safety handle his

6
or her vehicle, by driving it through a
crowded section of the City, accompanied by a City inspector. If the result
of any examination is unsatisfactory,
the applicant shall be refused a
license.
(b) The Commissioner is authorized to require an applicant subject
to an unsatisfactory examination in
division (a) of this section to attend
remedial driver education courses
approved by the Commissioner before
such applicant may again apply for a
license.
(c) The Commissioner is authorized to develop and implement a continuing
education
program
and
require the attendance of drivers and
owners as a condition of licensure.
Program requirements developed
under this section shall be promulgated by regulation and published in the
City Record. Notice of attendance
requirements to drivers and owners
shall be served by United States mail,
first class, to the address of record for
the licensee.
Section 443.17 Temporary Permit
Issuance; Term; Fee
Except when an extraordinary public emergency arises affecting transportation of the public upon the
streets within the City, such temporary permits when issued shall be
upon such terms and conditions as the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses shall provide, but such temporary permit shall in no event be
granted for a longer period than fifteen (15) days, and may be renewable
for similar periods, as necessary, only
upon the written recommendation of
the Commissioner made to Council,
and approved by it.
The fee for such temporary permit
shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) for the
driver
and
seventy-five
dollars
($75.00) for the hack or vehicle.
Section 443.20 Fee for Drivers’
Licenses
A license fee of sixty dollars
($60.00) shall be paid for a driver’s
license, and for renewals.
Section 443.37 Taxicab Passenger
Bill of Rights
(a) No owner or driver shall operate
or permit to be operated his or her
taxicab unless a Taxicab Passenger
Bill of Rights, rate card, and other
information required to be posted by
regulations are securely affixed to
the rear passenger windows of every
taxicab in operation. The Taxicab
Passenger Bill of Rights shall be in a
form provided by the Commissioner,
which form shall state that all taxicab passengers have a right to:
(1) Ride with a driver, who:
A. is well-groom and appropriately
dressed;
B. is courteous;
C. speaks English;
D. is knowledgeable about the metropolitan area;
E. obeys all traffic laws;
F. does not use a cell phone for calls
and/or texting while driving, including hand-held or hands-free devices;
(2) Ride in a safe, clean, and wellmaintained taxi that has:
A. working air conditioning and
heat, as appropriate;
B. clean cabin air that is smoke and
chemical free;
C. reasonable silence;
D. working seatbelts for all passengers;
E. a clean cabin, exterior, and
trunk;

The City Record
(3) Take the most direct or shortest
route to your destination, or to direct
the route of your choice;
(4) Receive a receipt with information identifying the taxicab;
(5) Pay for your ride with a credit/debit card;
(6) Be accompanied by a service
animal; and
(7) Eliminate or reduce your tip for
poor service.
(b) The Taxicab Passenger Bill of
Rights shall display in plain view of
every passenger the phone number
for registering complaints.
(d) A driver or owner who fails to
display a Taxicab Passenger Bill of
Rights as set forth in this section
shall be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each such failure to display said Taxicab Passenger Bill of
Rights.
Section 443.38 Fines for Violating
Rules and Regulations
(a) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall have the
authority to set and assess fines to
taxicab owners, taxicab drivers,
and/or and taxicab companies for violations of the Rules and Regulations
governing their conduct as published
in the City Record.
(b) The authority to assess fines
under this section does not limit or
affect any criminal offense, or the
authority of the Commissioner to suspend or revoke a license under Section 443.36, or any other means of
enforcement of this chapter provided
for in these Codified Ordinances.
(c) Any fine levied under division
(a) of this section, or a regulation promulgated thereunder, for a conviction
of a non-moving violation of the traffic laws of this State, or any political
subdivision thereof, shall result in a
fine issued exclusively to the taxicab
owner. For purposes of this division, a
taxicab owner is the person holding
legal title to the motor vehicle used as
a taxicab, regardless of any lease or
other contract governing to possession and use of such vehicle for use as
a taxicab.
Section 2. That the existing following:
Section 443.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 1828-78, passed June 12,
1978;
Section 443.011, as amended by Ordinance No. 2459-A-91, passed December
14, 1992;
Section 443.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 278-93, passed June 14, 1993;
Section 443.051, as amended by Ordinance No. 995-2000, passed December
4, 2000,
Section 443.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29,
1976,
Section 443.131, as amended by Ordinance No. 1828-77, passed June 8, 1978,
Sections 443.14 and 443.17, as
amended by Ordinance No.1684-76,
passed June 29, 1976,
Section 443.20, as amended by Ordinance no. 2393-03, passed February 3,
2003, and
Sections 443.37 and 443.38, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1820-06,
passed December 11, 2006,
are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 443.99 to read as follows:
Section 443.99 Penalties
Whoever violates any provision of
this chapter, or any regulation lawfully adopted pursuant thereto, is

700

May 1, 2013
guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense
within one (1) year after the first
offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on
each subsequent offense within one
(1) year after the first offense such
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree. In addition to any
other method of enforcement provided for in this chapter, any violation of
the provisions of this chapter which is
a
minor
misdemeanor
may
be
enforced by the issuance of a citation
in compliance with Rule 4.1 of the
Ohio Rules of Criminal Procedure.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 599-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Cities Readiness Initiative Program; authorizing one or more contracts with the Cuyahoga County
Board of Health; and authorizing
the purchase or lease of television
and radio advertising time and other
media.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $562,368, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Department of Health
to conduct the Cities Readiness Initiative (“CRI”) Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 599-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made

May 1, 2013
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Health may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process. The contracts will be
paid from the fund or funds to which
are credited any grant funds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with the Cuyahoga County Board of Health to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the purchase or lease, during the grant term,
of television and radio advertising
time and other media, for the Department of Public Health.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 600-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
Services for the 2012 Ohio Drug Law
Enforcement Fund Grant; and authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
needed to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $249,999.75,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services to conduct the
2012 Ohio Drug Law Enforcement
Fund Grant; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
application for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 600-13-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the amount of $83,333.25 from Fund
Nos. 10 SF 025, 10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049,

The City Record
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority. (RQS 6001, RL
2013-58)
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the contract or contracts shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the grant
proceeds accepted under this ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 601-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriCommunity
Development
ating
Block Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy
programs, fair housing, and administrative costs to implement the programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

701

7
Section 1. That CDBG funds in the
amount of $186,000 are appropriated
for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy programs, fair housing,
and administrative costs to implement the programs.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
various organizations to provide
counseling, training, marketing, program evaluation and other services
required for anti-predatory lending
and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy, fair housing
activities and to expend funds for
administrative costs to implement the
programs.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts and administrative
costs shall not exceed $186,000 and
shall be paid from Fund 14 SF 039,
Request No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-64.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 602-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for administrative expenses of the Code Enforcement Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 39 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $419,000, from Fund No.
14 SF 039, RQS 8006, RL 2013-61, are
appropriated for the reimbursement
of administrative expenses of the
Code Enforcement Program following the appropriate federal regulations for the Department of Building and Housing, in conjunction
with the Community Development
Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Building and Housing and the
Director of Community Development
shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding for this program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Building and Housing,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.

8
Ord. No. 603-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community garden program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
one or more non-profit agencies to
operate a community gardening program.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$129,400, and shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 14 SF 039, Request No. RQS 8006,
RL 2013-65.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 604-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Demolition Program and emergency contracts under the Board-up
Program; authorizing the Director of
Building and Housing to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies to implement these programs; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts for the items of labor and
materials necessary to implement
the Board-up Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $780,800 from Fund No. 14
SF 039, RQS 8006, RL 2013-59, are
appropriated for costs of the Department of Building and Housing associated with conducting the Demolition
and
Board-up
Programs
incurred in Fund 19 following the
appropriate federal regulations in
conjunction with the Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit
agencies and entities for services necessary to implement the Demolition
Program and emergency contracts
under the Board-up Program.
Section 3. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

The City Record
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a
one or two year period for the items of
labor and materials necessary to
implement the Board-up Program, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Building
and Housing. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance, a
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Building and
Housing by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 5. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Building and Housing and the
Director of Community Development
shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding for this program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to accept monies in repayment under
the program and to utilize the repayments and other program income in a
revolving fund for making additional
expenditures under this program, and
the funds are appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to collect from persons or entities
from whom the City is collecting
demolition costs an amount equal to
any amount spent for services related
to collection of demolition cost, such
as title searches, credit bureau
reports, and document filing fees.
Any funds collected shall be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Building and Housing,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 605-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant and HOME funds for
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development.

702

May 1, 2013
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Community Development Block Grant, Year 39 funds
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $4,287,200 from Fund No.
14 SF 039 and HOME funds in the
amount of $370,000 from Fund No. 19
SF 670 are appropriated for the
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development under the following schedule:
Personnel
Other

$4,321,000
336,200

Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds and enter into contracts
for reimbursement of non-profit subrecipients for the cost of audit and
other professional services.
Section 3. That the costs of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 039
and Fund No. 19 SF 670.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 606-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for
the operation of programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”), Year 39
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
39 Community Development Block
Grant Plan which committed funds
to Neighborhood Development Activities (“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible activities proposed by the various Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Sec-

May 1, 2013
tion 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations, non-profit corporations, private for-profit entities,
State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority,
Cleveland
Municipal
School District, Regional Transit
Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer
District,
Cleveland
Metroparks, and such other governmental entities as defined under the
Ohio Revised Code to implement
activities and programs that are eligible under the Community Development Block Grant CDBG Program
and are consistent with the City’s
Community Development objectives
and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to enter into or
amend memorandums of understanding with various City departments to
implement activities and programs
that are eligible under the CDBG Program and are consistent with the
City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to expend NDA
funds for any CDBG eligible Programs administered by the Department of Community Development
including entering into contract with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director of
Community
Development
shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line item
is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for such activity or program does not exceed the
amount allocated for the Council
member’s ward pursuant to the relevant Community Development Block
Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $7,600,000.00 and any
prior years NDA balances and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 037, 14 SF
038, and 14 SF 039.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program that
generated program income in an
amount not to exceed that generated
program income and to expend funds
for the programs administered by the
Department of Community Development that generated program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to

The City Record
evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees and to
expend such fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of loan
documents, closing, and servicing
costs. Such fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 607-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Project Clean Program; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Works to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies to
implement the Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 39, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Eight Hundred FiftySeven Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($857,200) from Fund Nos. 14 SF
039, RQS 8006, RL 2013-60, are appropriated for costs of the Department
of Public Works incurred from Fund
19 following the appropriate federal
regulations and associated with conducting the Project Clean Program
in conjunction with the Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
non-profit and for-profit agencies to
provide services necessary to implement the Project Clean Program.
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Public Works and the Director
of Community Development shall
enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Public Works, Finance,
Law; Committees on Community and
Economic Development, Public Service, Finance.

703

9
Ord. No. 608-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds and Emergency
Solutions Grant funds for expenses
of the Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), CHORE,
and Homeless Services Programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 39, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Two Hundred Eighty
Thousand Dollars ($280,000) from
Fund No. 14 SF 039 are appropriated for costs of the Department of
Aging incurred in Fund 19 associated with conducting the Senior Homeowners
Assistance
Program
(“SHAP”), and CHORE in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant Program. (RQS
8006, RL 2013-63)
Section 2. That Emergency Solutions Grant funds in the amount of
Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000)
from Fund No. 19 SF 671 are appropriated for costs of the Department of
Aging incurred in Fund 19 associated
with conducting the Homeless Services Program. (RQS 8006, RL 201363)
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Aging and the Director of Community Development shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding for
this program.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Aging, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Health and
Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 609-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into amendments to
Contract No. 35112, as amended, with
Eliza Bryant Village, formerly Eliza
Bryant Center, to accept discount
prepayments of
its
UDAG loan
regarding acquisition of land and
construction of a nursing care facility and senior center at 1380 Addison Road.
Whereas, the current owners of
the Eliza Bryant Village, formerly
Eliza
Bryant
Center
(“Eliza
Bryant”), have requested the opportunity to prepay the $565,390, four
percent (4 %) interest loan (Contract No. 35112, as amended) at its
net present value determined by discounting by a rate of nine and seventy-five percent (9.75%) the principal payment no later than July 31,
2013; and

10
Whereas, this ordinance allows
the Department of Economic Development to use the lump sum repayments for other City programs or
neighborhood housing projects in
need of financial assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property
and welfare, in that its enactment is
a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate assistance to create
and preserve job opportunities and
advance and promote commercial
and economic development in the
City of Cleveland, now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 35112, as amended, with
Eliza Bryant, to accept a discounted prepayment of the UDAG loan.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept on behalf of the City, a discounted prepayment from Eliza
Bryant to be paid to the City, in an
amount equal to the net present value
of the loan using a discount rate
equal to nine and seventy-five percent
(9.75%) in full satisfaction of its loan
of $565,390 due no later than July 31,
2013, which loan originally was made
to partially finance the acquisition of
land and construction of a nursing
care facility and senior center at 1380
Addison Road. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the prepayment.
Section 3. That the amendments
authorized by this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain terms and conditions
that the director deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
release any and all collateral taken to
secure repayments of the UDAG loan
and to execute all documents necessary to release the collateral of the
loan. Any release of security instruments shall be prepared and approved
by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
deposit the prepayments into Fund
No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 610-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. to provide technical
training and development content in
support of employee performance
and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.

The City Record
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems,
Inc. to provide technical training
and development content in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 for an additional year, with Adacel Systems
Inc. to provide technical training
and development content in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to
exercise this option. The cost of the
contract shall not exceed $17,701 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 60 SF
001, Request No. 3001, RL 2013-46.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 611-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise the second option to
renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with
Big Wireless, LLC to provide level
3 technical support and preventive
maintenance for wireless equipment
under this contract, including cable
and connectors.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 679-11, passed June 6,
2011, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. PS 2011-200
with Big Wireless, LLC to provide
level 3 technical support and preventive maintenance for wireless
equipment
under
this
contract,
including cable and connectors; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 679-11
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to
renew on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-200 for an additional year in the amount of $83,000

704

May 1, 2013
with Big Wireless, LLC to provide
level 3 technical support and preventive maintenance for wireless
equipment
under
this
contract,
including
cable
and
connectors.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 679-11 to exercise
this option. (RQS 2002, RL 2013-40)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 612-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Revenue Assistance Corporation, or their designee, to provide economic development assistance as an incentive to relocate to
4780 Hinckley Parkway in the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Revenue Assistance Corporation, or their designee, to provide economic development assistance as an incentive to relocate to
4780 Hinckley Parkway in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$202,500.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, Request No. RQS
9501, RL 2013-55.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or circumstances
relate to the duties for the particular
job sought.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

May 1, 2013

The City Record

11

Ord. No. 613-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 36, 38, and 56 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011,
as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following:
Section 36, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011,
Section 38, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 172412, passed December 3, 2012, and
Section 56, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 610-12,
passed May 21, 2012, Ordinance No. 1537-12, passed November 12, 2012, and Ordinance No. 1701-12, passed December 3, 3012,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 36. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Accountant Supervisor ..............................................................
Assistant Chief of Water Distribution ...............................
Assistant Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
Assistant Commissioner, Division of Printing and
Reproduction .............................................................................
Building Manager .......................................................................
Business Process Analyst ........................................................
Chief Architect.............................................................................
Chief Auditor – Utilities ..........................................................
Chief City Planner .....................................................................
Chief, Computer Operations ....................................................
Chief Engineer – Civil .............................................................
Chief Engineer – Mechanical.................................................
Chief Legal Investigator - Civil Branch ...........................
Chief of Street Lighting and Electrical Services ..........
Chief of Laboratories ................................................................
Chief of Purification .................................................................
Convention Manager ..................................................................
Development Finance Analyst I ...........................................
Development Finance Analyst II .........................................
Financial Systems Coordinator..............................................
Fiscal Grants Administrator...................................................
Fiscal Manager ............................................................................
Health Promotion Coordinator ...............................................
Investment Manager ..................................................................
Manager of Enterprise Unit ...................................................
Manager of Events.....................................................................
Manager of General Maintenance ........................................
Manager of Markets ..................................................................
Manager of Parking ..................................................................
Manager of Recreation .............................................................
Master Plan Examiner..............................................................
Purchasing Supervisor - Division of Purchases and
Supplies .......................................................................................
Secretary to the Board of Building Standards and
Building Appeals.....................................................................
Secretary to the Board of Zoning Appeals ......................
Security Manager ........................................................................
Senior Internal Auditor ............................................................
Senior Programmer Analyst ...................................................
Supervisor - Information Control ..........................................
Theatrical Manager....................................................................
Water Plant Manager ...............................................................

Minimum
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

Maximum
72,539.05
86,668.37
84,588.76

23,647.11
23,647.11
55,000.00
23,647.11
23,647.11
30,000.00
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
43,014.40
51,043.20
23,647.11
40,000.00
23,647.11
22,333.40
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
40,000.00
23,647.11

84,588.76
78,080.22
97,850.00
101,803.14
84,588.76
82,781.08
84,588.76
84,588.76
84,588.76
67,017.93
97,572.42
80,353.75
86,668.37
78,080.22
60,216.00
71,468.80
67,017.93
86,093.31
84,588.76
77,262.20
84,588.76
78,080.22
78,080.22
78,080.22
78,080.22
78,080.22
78,080.22
101,803.14

23,647.11

67,017.93

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

82,781.08
82,781.08
90,684.96
67,017.93
69,365.01
67,017.93
67,017.93
97,572.42

Section 38. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Administrative Manager ...........................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission ........
Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation .......................
Chief-Systems Analysis .............................................................
Consulting Engineer ..................................................................
Harbor Manager ..........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications ...............

705

Minimum
27,193.55
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
36,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

Maximum
101,816.22
122,253.61
97,819.83
77,502.92
97,819.83
94,991.29
97,819.83
77,502.92
87,664.94

The City Record

12
10.
11.
12.
13.
12.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Manager of Education and Research .................................
Manager of Employee Relations ..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Minority Business Development Administrator ...............
Project Coordinator ....................................................................
Risk Manager...............................................................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations ..............
Water Business Plan Manager..............................................
Health Services Administrator...............................................

May 1, 2013
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

87,664.94
90,294.89
90,294.89
77,502.92
90,294.89
97,819.83
77,502.92
90,294.89
77,502.92

Section 56. Division of Police; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be
fixed by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Forensic Video Specialist ........................................................
Crime Analyst I...........................................................................
Crime Analyst II.........................................................................
Crime Analyst III .......................................................................
Intelligence Analyst I...............................................................
Intelligence Analyst II .............................................................
Intelligence Analyst III ...........................................................
Occupational Medical Director ...............................................
Police Stress Consultant ..........................................................
Public Safety Information Technology Manager ...........

Minimum
50,000.00
38,000.00
53,000.00
66,000.00
38,000.00
53,000.00
66,000.00
43,107.75
75,000.00
65,000.00

Maximum
75,000.00
52,000.00
65,000.00
80,000.00
52,000.00
65,000.00
80,000.00
82,687.47
125,000.00
110,000.00

Section 2. That the existing following:
Section 36, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011,
Section 38, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 172412, passed December 3, 2012, and
Section 56, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 610-12,
passed May 21, 2012, Ordinance No. 1537-12, passed November 12, 2012, and Ordinance No. 1701-12, passed December 3, 3012,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 614-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the East 149th Street area sewer
rehabilitation
and
replacement,
which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing
the East 149th Street area sewer
and
replacement,
rehabilitation
which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after com-

petitive bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement, provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No.
RQS 2003, RL 2013-49.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 615-13.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Pruitt, Cleveland, Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the Milligan Avenue area sewer
rehabilitation
and
replacement,
which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.

706

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing
the Milligan Avenue area sewer
rehabilitation
and
replacement,
which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement, provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No.
RQS 2003, RL 2013-50.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

May 1, 2013
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 616-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brady, Pruitt, Cleveland and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the West Boulevard area sewer
replacement, which may include but
not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing
the West Boulevard area sewer
replacement, which may include but
not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement, provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No.
RQS 2003, RL 2013-48.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 617-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to develop and assist in
implementing
an
Integrated
Resources Plan for the various divisions of the Department of Public

The City Record
Utilities, and to perform related services, including updates and support
for a period not to exceed three
years with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to develop and
assist in implementing an Integrated Resources Plan (“IRP”) for the
various divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, and to perform
related services, including updates
and support for a period not to
exceed three years with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Utilities.
The IRP shall include, but not be
limited to, forecasting; performing
market analysis, reviewing current
programs, evaluating current supply, performing annual reviews and
making recommendations to ensure
consistency with the IRP and with
industry changes, and other services
necessary to implement the IRP.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001, 54 SF
001, 58 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2004,
RL 2013-92.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 618-13.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizHuman
of
ing
the
Director
Resources to employ one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants to provide professional
services for pre-employment background and criminal checks for the
Department of Human Resources for
a one year period, with two one-year
options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislation.

707

13
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to administer preemployment background and criminal records checks; and including
but not limited to automated national wanted felon checks; automated
motor vehicle license and points
checks; automated workers’ compensation
checks;
automated
social
security traces and automated credit checks for the Department of
Human Resources, for a one year
period, with two one-year options to
renew, the second of which requires
additional legislation.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Human Resources
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Human
Resources for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from 01-0402-6320, RQS 0402, RL
2013-44.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training, Finance.
Ord. No. 619-13.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to employ one or more
professional consultants to administer the City’s employee assistance
program for a one year period, with
two one-year options to renew, the
second of which requires additional
a
legislation;
and
authorizing
month-to-month extension, not to
exceed three months, to Contract No.
CT-0402-PS 2011-270 with The Center
for Families and Children.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to

14
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to administer the
City’s employee assistance program
for a one year period, with two oneyear options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislation
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Human Resources, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
extend the term of Contract No. CT0402 PS 2011-270 with The Center for
Families and Children, on a month-tomonth basis, not to exceed three
months, for employee assistance services through the Ease@Work program.
Section 3. That the cost of contract,
contracts, or extensions authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 01-04026320, RQS 0402, RL 2013-23.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training, Finance.
Ord. No. 620-13.
By Council Members Zone, Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to employ one or more
professional consultants to administer the City’s COBRA program and
HIPAA compliance for a one year
period, with two one-year options to
renew, the second of which requires
additional legislation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to administer the
City’s COBRA program and HIPAA
compliance for a one year period,
with two one-year options to renew,
the second of which requires additional legislation.

The City Record
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Human Resources, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contracts shall be paid from Fund No. 010402, 6320, RQS 0402, RL 2013-43.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 595-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 195.02 and 195.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
957-12, passed July 11, 2012, providing an exemption from the admission tax for small capacity live
entertainment venues.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 195.02 and
195.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No., and Section 195.03,
as amended by Ordinance No. 957-12,
passed July 11, 2012 are amended to
read as follows:
Section 195.02 Tax Levied
To provide funds for the purposes
of general municipal operations, procurement of fixed assets or permanent improvements including the payment of costs of acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
remodeling, renovating, enlarging,
improving, equipping or furnishing
facilities by contract, lease, lease-purchase, or otherwise, and including the
improvement of the municipal stadium by cooperative arrangements
with other political subdivisions or
nonprofit corporations, payment of
lease
rentals,
lease-purchase
amounts, debt charges or other obligations, the administration of deficits
in City funds and for all other lawful
purposes, there is hereby levied and
imposed upon every person who pays
an admission charge to any one place:
(a) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the amounts paid for admission to any
place, including admission by season
ticket or subscription. The tax shall
apply to every admission within the
City for which a charge is made,
notwithstanding that the sale of the

708

May 1, 2013
ticket or other evidence of right of
admission thereto is made outside of
the City;
(b) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the excess of the amounts paid for
tickets or cards of admission to theaters, operas and other places of
amusement, sold at newsstands, hotel
and places other than the ticket
offices of such theaters, operas or
other places of amusement, over and
above the amounts representing the
established price therefore at such
ticket offices, such tax to be returned
and paid in the manner provided in
Section 195.04 by the person selling
the ticket;
(c) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the amount paid for admission to any
public performance for profit at any
roof garden, cabaret or other similar
entertainment in case the charge for
admission is in the form of a service
charge, cover charge or other similar
charge;
(d) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the amount paid as annual membership dues by every club or organization maintaining a golf course, and a
tax of eight percent (8%) on greens
fees paid to golf courses either under
club or private ownership;
(e) A tax of six percent (6%) on the
amount paid for admission to any
museum on land leased by the City
and subject to tax pursuant to division (b)(2) of Section 195.03.
(f) A tax of four percent (4%) on
the amount paid for admission to any
small capacity live entertainment
venue that has occupant load capacity of one hundred-fifty-one (151) people or more, but not greater than
seven hundred-fifty (750) people. For
purposes of this section, “small capacity live entertainment venue” is
defined as any separate room in a
premises where people pay admission
to attend a separate active performance by an individual or individuals
who, at the time of and during the performance, create live entertainment
for an audience through the use or
manipulation of voice, instruments,
or dance. If the same active performance is occurring for the benefit of
more than one separate room, then
those separate rooms shall be considered together as one venue.
Section 195.03 Exemptions from
Tax
(a) No tax shall be levied under this
chapter with respect to any admission
all the proceeds of which inure:
(1) Exclusively to the benefit of
religious, educational or charitable
institutions, societies or organizations; societies or organizations for
the prevention of cruelty to children
or animals or societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose
of maintaining symphony orchestras
and receiving substantial support
from voluntary contributions, or of
improving any municipal corporation,
or of maintaining a cooperative or
community center, moving picture
theater, or swimming pool, if no part
of the net earnings thereof inures to
the benefit of any private stockholder
or individual;
(2) Exclusively to the benefit of
persons in the military or naval forces
of the United States, or of National
Guard organizations, reserve officer
associations or posts or organizations
of war veterans or auxiliary units or
societies of any such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations,
units or societies are organized in the

May 1, 2013
State, and in no part of their net earnings inures to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual;
(3) Exclusively to the benefit of
members of the police or fire departments of any municipal corporation,
or the dependents or heirs of such
members;
(4) Exclusively to the benefit of the
general revenue fund of any municipal corporation or exclusively to the
benefit of any fund of any municipal
corporation under the control of a
recreation commission.
(5) Exclusively to a small capacity
live entertainment venue that has
occupant load capacity of less than or
equal to one hundred-fifty (150) people. For purposes of this section,
“small capacity live entertainment
venue” is defined as any separate
room in a premises where people pay
admission to attend a separate active
performance by an individual or individuals who, at the time of and during
the performance, create live entertainment for an audience through the
use or manipulation of voice, instruments, or dance. If the same active
performance is occurring for the benefit of more than one separate room,
then those separate rooms shall be
considered together as one venue.
(b) (1) The exemption from tax provided by this section shall, however,
not be allowed in case of admissions
to wrestling matches, prize fights or
boxing, sparring or other pugilistic
matches or exhibitions, unless exclusively for the benefit of those organizations set forth in division (a)(2) of
this section, nor in the case of admissions to any athletic game or exhibition the proceeds of which inure wholly or partly to the benefit of any high
school, academy, preparatory or other
school or wholly or partly to the benefit of any college or university.
(2) The exemption from tax provided by division (a)(1) of this section
shall, however, not be allowed in case
of admissions to museums located on
land leased by the City pursuant to a
lease agreement entered into after
August 21, 1991.
(c) Immediately after the event for
which an exemption from admission
tax has been allowed, upon the
demand of the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, the treasurer of the institution, society or
organization for whose benefit such
event was held shall file an itemized
statement with the Commissioner setting forth the amount of money actually received by such treasurer
together with the expenses of promoting and conducting such event. Such
statement shall be used as a basis of
subsequent requests for exemption
from admissions tax for the benefit of
such institution, society or organization. If such statement shows a disproportionate expenditure for promoting and conducting such event, in
relation to the profits, if any, no such
exemption
shall
thereafter
be
allowed to such institution, society or
organization.
(d) The exemption from tax provided in this section shall not be allowed
to any institution, society or organization which does not control the sale
of admissions to the event for which
the exemption is requested, nor shall
any exemption be allowed where talent, services or other items are compensated for on a percentage basis if
such percentage results in a payment
in excess of the flat rate ordinarily
charged for the same talent, services
or other items.

The City Record
(e) The limitation contained in this
section, upon the exemption from tax
in case of admissions to wrestling
matches, prize fights or boxing, sparring or other pugilistic matches or
exhibitions, shall not be deemed to
apply to any such matches or exhibitions in which all the contestants are
amateurs and the entire proceeds
thereof are devoted to a legitimate
charitable purpose, excepting therefrom the necessary expenses, which
shall in no event include payment to
any contestant other than his or her
necessary traveling expenses.
(f) Notwithstanding anything else
in this chapter to the contrary, no tax
shall be levied under this chapter
with respect to any admission to the
indoor arena facility (the “Gateway
Arena”) constructed by Gateway Economic Development Corporation of
Greater Cleveland (“Gateway”) pursuant to that certain Agreement
Relating to Ownership, Financing,
Construction and Operation of a
Sports Facility and Related Economic
Development Projects, dated as of
November 7, 1990, as amended by the
First Amendment as authorized by
Ordinance No. 325-92 (the “ThreeParty Agreement”), between the City,
Gateway, and the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio (the “County”), provided,
however, that the exemption provided
by this division (f) shall apply and be
effective only as long as there are outstanding any Arena Bonds to which
reference is made in the Cooperative
Agreement between the City and
County authorized by Ordinance No.
327-92 (the “Cooperative Agreement”)
(such
Bonds
being
hereinafter
referred to as the “Arena Bonds”) and
only if and as long as the following
conditions are met and shall have
been certified to be met by the Director of Law to the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses:
(1) Gateway shall pay or shall
cause the lessees or operators of the
Gateway Arena to pay to the Trustee
(the “Trustee”) for the holders of the
Arena Bonds amounts equal to the
taxes that would have been levied
under Section 195.02 but for the
exemption provided by this division
(f) at the times and in the manner
that such taxes would have been
payable under this chapter. In computing the amount payable pursuant
to this division (f)(1), the admission
charges for admissions to the Arena
shall be deemed to be net of the
amount payable pursuant to this division (f)(1).
(2) The County shall, in its trust
agreement or a related agreement
with the Trustee, require the Trustee:
A. To retain each Bond Year as
defined in the Cooperative Agreement
from the amounts paid to the Trustee
pursuant to division (f)(1) of this section to secure payments with respect
to the Arena Bonds as provided in the
Cooperative Agreement, an amount
up to the sum of: (a) three percent
(3%) of all admissions charges for
admissions to the Gateway Arena during the related Collection Year as provided in the Cooperative Agreement
for: basketball games played by the
Cleveland Cavaliers at the Gateway
Arena during each basketball season
(including divisional, conference and
championship play-off games); preseason or exhibition basketball
games played by said Cavaliers at the
Gateway Arena and the NBA All-Star
Game and any other event held at the
Gateway Arena in which professional

709

15
basketball players participate (collectively, “Games”), plus (b) in the
event that the City increases the
taxes payable under this chapter
from six percent (6%) to a higher
rate, the percentage equal to such
increase times all admissions charges
for all admissions during such Collection Year to the Gateway Arena for
Games, and plus (c) in the event that
the City increases the taxes payable
under this chapter from six percent
(6%) to a higher rate, the percentage
equal to such increase times all
admissions charges for all admissions during such Collection Year to
the Gateway Arena for any events
other than Games;
B. To release and pay to the City at
the end of each Bond Year any of such
amount described in division (f)(2)A.
above not used or needed for such purpose during such Bond Year, together
with any investment income earned
thereon; and
C. To pay any such amounts in
excess of the amount described in
division (f)(2)A. above directly to the
City at the end of each Bond Year,
together with any investment income
earned thereon.
(3) Gateway shall prepare and submit to the Director of Finance of the
City and the Clerk of City Council, or
cause the preparation and submission
to the Director of Finance of the City
and the Clerk of City Council, such
returns and reports regarding the
amounts paid to the Trustee pursuant
to division (f)(1) of this section as the
Directors of Law and Finance shall
reasonably require to demonstrate
Gateway’s compliance with this section.
(4) Gateway shall agree to repay or
cause to be repaid to the City from
Gateway’s future excess revenues
any moneys paid to the Trustee pursuant to division (f)(2)A. of this section actually applied to the payments
with respect to the Arena Bonds with
interest and on such other terms and
in such form as are consistent with
Gateway’s obligations under the trust
indentures and related agreements
securing Gateway’s bonds and the
Arena Bonds and as the City’s Director of Finance and Director of Law
deem acceptable in the interests of
the City.
(5) Gateway shall make or cause to
be made such other assurances and
commitments as the City’s Director of
Finance and Director of Law deem
necessary, and appropriate to protect
the City’s entitlements under this
division (f) and provide copies of
such other assurances and commitments to the Clerk of the Council.
(g) (1) Except as otherwise provided in division (b), and notwithstanding anything else in this chapter to
the contrary, no tax shall be levied
under this chapter with respect to any
admission to live theater, live opera,
live ballet, or live exhibition of dance,
musical performance, or monologue
productions which are sponsored by
an institution, society or organization
that has received a determination
from the Internal Revenue Service
that the organization is exempt from
federal income tax under section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended; provided
that the institution, society or organization actively participates in planning and conducting the event, is
responsible for the safety and success
of the event, is organized for the purpose of sponsoring live theater, live

16
opera, live ballet, or live exhibition of
dance, musical performance, or monologue productions and has among the
stated purposes in its charter the promotion of arts education in the communities which it serves, and will
receive at least twenty percent (20%)
of the net profits, if any, of the events
which the institution, society or organization sponsors and will bear the
risk of at least twenty percent (20%)
of the losses, if any, from the events
which the institution, society or organization sponsors.
(2) The exemption from tax provided in this subsection shall not be
allowed to any institution, society or
organization which does not control
the sale of admissions to the event for
which the exemption is requested.
(3) Immediately after an event for
which an exemption from admission
tax has been allowed pursuant to this
subsection (g), the treasurer of the
institution, society or organization
shall file an itemized statement with
the Commissioner setting forth the
amount of money actually received by
such treasurer together with the
expenses of promoting and conducting such event. Such statement shall
be used as a basis of subsequent
requests for exemption from admissions tax in accordance with this subsection. If such statement demonstrates a failure to qualify in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection (g), no such exemption shall
thereafter be allowed to such institution, society or organization.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 596-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland to the State of Ohio for the
improvement of the Broadway/Ackley/Union intersection; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into agreements; and causing
payment to the State of Ohio for the
City’s share of the improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1206-11, passed October 31, 2011, this
Council authorized the City of Cleveland to cooperate with the Director
of Transportation for the improvement
of
the
Broadway/Ackley/Union intersection (the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by assuming and bearing one
hundred percent (100%) of the
entire cost of the Improvement, less
the amount of Federal Highway
Administration and United States
Department of Transportation funds
set aside by the Director of Transportation for the financing of this
Improvement; and

The City Record
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $96,898, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the
legislation
proposing
cooperation
and has caused to be made plans
and specifications and an estimate
of
costs
and
expense
for
the
Improvement and has transmitted
copies of the same to this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes such real property
and easements as are necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Director of
ODOT.
Section 6. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546, 52 SF 001, and 54 SF 001. (RQS
0103, RL 2013-78)
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 630-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to enter into an
agreement with St. Clair Superior

710

May 1, 2013
Development Corporation for the
AsiaTown Cultural Center Planning
Project through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into an agreement
with St. Clair Superior Development
Corporation for the AsiaTown Cultural Center Planning Project for
the public purpose of creating a
Asian community & cultural center
in the city of Cleveland to promote
cultural diversity through the use of
Ward
8
Neighborhood
Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 631-13.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th & Scovill near East Tech and East 39th &
Community College Avenue, northeast side, for the period from May
29, 2013 to June 29, 2013, inclusive,
publicizing the 8th Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Capital Projects is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development to stretch banners at
East 55th & Scovill near East Tech
and East 39th & Community College
Avenue, northeast side, for the period from May 29, 2013 to June 29,
2013, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any

May 1, 2013
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 632-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 25th Annual Walk for
Hunger, on May 11, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 25th Annual Walk
for Hunger, on May 11, 2013, start:
Burke Lakefront Airport – proceeds
west-bound on North Marginal –
south-bound on East 9th St – westbound on St. Clair – south-bound on
West 3rd – east-bound on W. West
Superior – south-bound on West 2nd
– east-bound on Euclid Ave – southbound on Ontario Ave – east-bound
on Prospect Ave – south-bound on
East 4th St – east-bound on Huron
– south-bound on East 2nd – eastbound on Huron – north-bound on
East 9th St – east-bound on Huron
– west-bound on Euclid – northbound on East 12th – west-bound on
Lakeside – north-bound on East 9th
– ending at Voinovich Park; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 634-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Dow, J. Johnson, Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, Half Marathon, 10K,
and 5K, on May 19, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 2013 RiteAid
Cleveland Marathon, Half Marathon,
10K, and 5K, sponsored by Cleveland Marathon, Inc., on May 19, 2013
Section 2. The 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon and Half Marathon
courses start on West 3rd Street at the
corner of FirstEnergy (Cleveland
Browns) Stadium, just north of west
parking lot entrance (south side of
crosswalk); then south on West 3rd
Street to West Lakeside Avenue; then
turn right on West Lakeside Avenue
and merge onto Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway entrance ramp (top of
ramp); then enter Cleveland Memorial Shoreway, going westbound to
Edgewater Drive exit; then turn right
on Edgewater Drive exit, go west on
Edgewater Drive to West 110th
Street; then turn left on West 110th
Street and go south to Lake Avenue;
then turn left on Lake Avenue and go
east to West 85th Street; then turn
right on West 85th street and go south
to Detroit Avenue; then turn left on
Detroit Avenue and go east to West
74th Street; then turn right on West
74th Street and go south to Franklin
Boulevard; then turn left on Franklin
Boulevard and go east to West 44th
Street; then turn right on West 44th
Street and go south to Lorain Avenue;
then turn left on Lorain Avenue and
go east to West 25th Street; then turn
right on West 25th Street and go south
to Barber Avenue; then turn left on
Barber Avenue and go east to Scranton Road; then turn left on Scranton
Road and go north to Starkweather
Avenue; then turn right on Starkweather Avenue and go east to West
11th Street; then turn left on West
11th Street and go north to Abbey
Avenue; then turn left on Abbey
Avenue and go west to West 20th
Street; then turn right on West 20th
Street and go north to Lorain Avenue;
turn
right
on
Lorain
Avenue/Carnegie Avenue (in eastbound lanes, with traffic) and go east
to Ontario Street; then turn left on
Ontario Street (in southbound lanes,
against traffic) to W. Huron Street;
then turn left (30 degrees) on W.
Huron Street and go west to West 6th
Street; then turn right on West 6th
Street and go north to W. Prospect
Avenue; then turn left on W. Prospect
Avenue (becomes West 6th Street)
and go north to W. St. Clair Avenue;
then turn right on W. St. Clair Avenue
and go east to East 9th Street. At this
point the courses of the Marathon and
Half Marathon split. The Half
Marathon course continues; turn left
on East 9th Street (center lanes) and
go north to Erieside Street; then turn
left on Erieside Street (center lanes)
and go north to the center of driveway
at the Great Lakes Science Center

711

17
The
(Half
Marathon
Finish).
Marathon course continues; turn right
on East 9th Street and go north to E.
Superior Avenue; then turn left on E.
Superior Avenue and go east to East
13th Street; then turn right on East
13th Street and go south to Euclid
Avenue; then turn left on Euclid
Avenue and go east to East 18th
Street; then turn left on East 18th
Street and go north to Chester
Avenue; then turn right on Chester
Avenue (in westbound lanes, against
traffic) and go east to East 36th
Street; then turn left on East 36th
Street and go north to Payne Avenue;
then turn right on Payne Avenue and
go east to East 36th Street; then turn
left on East 36th Street and go north
to St. Clair Avenue, N.E.; then turn
right on St. Clair Avenue, N.E., and go
east to East 40th Street; then turn
right on East 40th Street and go south
to Chester Avenue; then turn left on
Chester Avenue (in westbound lanes,
against traffic) and go east to Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive; then turn left
on Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and
go north to North Marginal Road; then
turn left on North Marginal Road and
go west to East 72nd Street; then turn
left on East 72nd Street and go south
to St. Clair Avenue, E.; then turn left
on St. Clair Avenue, E., and go east to
the turnaround just west of East 73rd
Street (180 degree turn); complete the
180 degree turn on St. Clair Avenue,
E., and go west to East 9th Street; turn
right on East 9th Street (northbound
lanes, with traffic) and go north to
Erieside Street; then turn left on
Erieside Street (center lanes) and go
west to the center of driveway at the
Great
Lakes
Science
Center
(Marathon Finish).
Section 3. The 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon 10K course starts on
West 3rd Street at the corner of
FirstEnergy Stadium, just north of
west parking lot entrance (south side
of crosswalk); then south on West 3rd
Street to W. St. Clair Avenue; then
turn right on W. St. Clair Avenue
(westbound lanes with traffic) and
go west to West 6th Street; then turn
left on West 6th Street (westbound
lanes with traffic) and go south the
W. Superior Avenue; then turn right
on W. Superior Avenue (becomes
Detroit Avenue) and go west to West
67th Street; then turn right on West
67th Street and go north to Father
Caruso Drive; then turn right on
Father Caruso Drive and go east to
West 65th Street; then turn right on
West 65th Street and go south the Herman Avenue; then turn left on Herman Avenue and go east to West 49th
Street; then turn right on West 49th
Street and go south to Tillman
Avenue; then turn left on Tillman
Avenue and go east to Cleveland
Memorial
Shoreway
(eastbound)
entrance; then turn slight right on
Cleveland Memorial Shoreway and go
east to W. Lakeside Avenue exit; then
turn slight right on W. Lakeside
Avenue exit and go east on W. Lakeside Avenue (becomes Lakeside
Avenue, E.) to East 9th Street; turn
left on East 9th Street (northbound
lanes, against traffic) and go north to
Erieside Street; then turn left on
Erieside Street (in eastbound lanes,
against traffic) and go west to the
driveway at the Great Lakes Science
Center (10K Finish).
Section 4. The 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon 5K course starts on
West 3rd Street at the southwest corner of FirstEnergy Stadium, just

The City Record

18
north of Al Lerner Way; then south on
West 3rd Street to W. Superior
Avenue; then turn right on W. Superior Avenue and go west to West 6th
Street; then turn left (45 degrees) on
West 6th Street and go south to W.
Huron Road; then turn left on West
Huron Road (becomes Huron Road,
E.) and go east to Prospect Street;
then turn right on Prospect Street and
go east to Huron Road, E.; then turn
left on Huron Road, E. (becomes East
13th Street) and go north to E. St.
Clair Avenue; then turn left on E. St.
Clair Avenue and go west to East 9th
Street; then turn right on East 9th
Street and go north to Erieside
Avenue; then turn left on Erieside
Avenue and go west to Al Lerner
Way; then turn right on Erieside
Avenue and go north and west to the
tunnel at the northwest corner of
FirstEnergy Stadium; then turn left
into the tunnel at northwest corner of
FirstEnergy Stadium and onto the
field in the west end zone (5K Finish).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 621-13.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3226 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 657
East 152nd Street by Resolution No.
1091-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon a cooperation agreement between Applicant Yaser S.
Najjar, President of East 152nd
Street, Inc., and Councilman Michael
D. Polensek; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to East 152nd Inc.,
657 East 152nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 2405365 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1091-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 622-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D4 and D6 Liquor Permit to
3400 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a D4
and D6 Liquor Permit from Ronndurah Properties, LLC, DBA Prodigy Club/Club Prodigy, Southeast
Unit, 3801 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
7505402 to Ronndurah Properties,
LLC, DBA Prodigy Lounge, 3400 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 75054020001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D4 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Ronndurah Properties,
LLC, DBA Prodigy Club/Club Prodigy, Southeast Unit, 3801 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7505402 to Ronndurah Properties, LLC, DBA Prodigy
Lounge, 3400 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
75054020001; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

712

May 1, 2013
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 633-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
12401 Corlett Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Amana My Way
Deli, Inc., DBA Corlett Deli, 12401
Corlett
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105, Permit Number 01608940005;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Amana My Way
Deli, Inc., DBA Corlett Deli, 12401 Corlett Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permit Number 01608940005; and

May 1, 2013
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 635-13.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution encouraging the Jackson administration to
review its laws for gender-biased
terminology and to revise its laws
to make the language gender-neutral.
Whereas, U.S. cities and states
have begun to review their laws to
remove gender bias from the language; and
Whereas, words such as “watchmen”, “policemen” and “firemen” are
being revised to “security guards”,
“police officers” and “firefighters”
and
Whereas, many laws were written
decades ago when women were not
a major part of the public sector
workforce; and
Whereas, words help shape perceptions about people and opportunities available to people; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council encourages the Jackson administration to
review its laws for gender –biased terminology and to revise its laws to
make the language gender-neutral.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 196-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Jonell Centre (formerly
the Garfield Savings Bank and the

The City Record
Cleveland Trust Company) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 197-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church (formerly the
Morison Avenue Communal Baths)
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 237-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 3 of Ordinance
No. 1449-11, passed October 24, 2011,
and the title and Section 4 of Ordinance 1248-12, passed September 24,
2012, relating to the Bureau of Justice Assistance grant and the Ohio
Office of Criminal Justice Services
grant for the Veterans Treatment
Docket Program for the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, lines 5 and 6, strike
“Bureau of Justice Assistance grant
and the”.
2. In Section 3, lines 4 and 5,
strike “Bureau of Justice Assistance” and insert “Ohio Office of
Criminal Justice Services”; in line 6,
strike “Case Western Reserve University, and Cuyahoga County”; and
in lines 9 and 10, strike “Case Western Reserve University, and Cuyahoga County”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 249-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland, Kelley and Dow (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 66th Place.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 316-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Craig Motor Company
Building (also known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn
Building) as a Cleveland Landmark.

713

19
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 317-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 318-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance designating Villa Angela-St. Joseph High
School as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 319-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Fine Arts Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 359-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts
with the National Youth Sports Program to provide a youth summer
sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2013.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 2, strike
$100,000” and insert “$108,700” and in
the same line, strike “No.” and insert
“Nos. 14 SF 039 and”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 363-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing and
maintaining the Cleveland Airport
System Signage Program, Phase I,
including
related
improvements,
authorizing the Director of Port Con-

20
trol to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing
the Director to employ one or more
professional consultants to design the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 432-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide construction management and administrative services
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with three one-year
options to renew, the second of which
is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 433-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide professional services necessary to provide drawings
of the existing and proposed Airfield
signage, lighting, and marking plans,
as required for certification of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
by the Federal Aviation Administration, and to update drawings as
required, for a period of one year with
three one-year options to renew, the
second of which is exercisable
through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 481-13.
By Council Members Conwell, Kelley and Mitchell (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 447.01 and 447.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
437-01, passed June 19, 2001 and
Ordinance No. 1237-12, passed October 15, 2012, relating to route map
and operations schedule for carriages.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Commitees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 491-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Brookwood
Capital
Partners,
Inc.,
or
its
designee, to provide for a ten-year,
sixty percent tax abatement for certain tangible real property improvements, as an incentive to construct
a new facility to be used as a medical supply warehouse and distribution center occupied by Owens &
Minor, Inc. and other potential firms
located at the southwest corner of
South Marginal Road and Marquette
Street in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 1, after “shall”
insert “include the requirement that
the new facility being constructed by
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or
its designee, with certain taxes abated under this ordinance, shall have a
minimum LEED certification of silver, and shall also”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 492-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight
Corp. d/b/a Top Gun to provide for
the use and occupancy of certain Cityowned property located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 493-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American
Association of Airport Executives,
Inc. to provide professional technical
and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of employee performance and professional development
programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront
Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

714

May 1, 2013
Ord. No. 494-13.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease certain space located on a portion of North Marginal Road and
known as Lot 9 to the Cleveland Coordinating Committee for the Cod, Inc.
to provide parking for the USS Cod
Museum, for a term of six months.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 496-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley and Pruitt (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell the southeast portion of City-owned Permanent Parcel
No. 104-02-002, located at the southwest corner of South Marginal Road
and Marquette Street to Brookwood
Capital Partners, Inc., or their
designee, for construction of a medical supply warehouse and distribution center; authorizing the lease of
the northeast portion of the parcel to
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or
their designee for a period up to fifty
years, with one option to renew for an
additional forty-nine year period,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities; and authorizing one or more
Option Agreements for the sale and
lease of the remaining westerly portion of the parcel, for future expansion of the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 535-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to execute a release of
covenant and deed restrictions on
property located at 1708 Southpoint
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio and known as
the Hoover Pavilion in exchange for
an agreement from MetroHealth to
maintain and expand its commitment
to mentally ill persons, and to receive,
treat and care for the mentally ill at
two City-owned Health Centers and
on-site at its main campus and at
other MetroHealth locations in the
City of Cleveland; and to authorize
the Director of Public Health to enter
into leases with MetroHealth to provide medical services at the Thomas
McCafferty and J. Glen Smith Health
Centers.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

May 1, 2013
Ord. No. 570-13.
By Council Members Zone, Miller,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the construction of a new grade separation with
Norfolk Southern and extension of
West 73rd Street to the West Shoreway; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into agreements
with the State of Ohio; and causing
payment to the State of Ohio for the
City’s share of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. Insert new Sections 3, 4, and 5 to
read as follows:
“Section 3. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire, accept, and record
for right-of-way purposes such real
property and easements as are necessary to make the Improvement.
The consideration to be paid for the
property shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 4. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
execute on behalf of the City all
documents necessary to acquire,
accept, and record the property and
easements.
Section 5. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into any agreements necessary
to implement the Improvement.”
2. Renumber existing Sections 4
and 5 to new “Section 6” and “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

The City Record
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 251-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Carnation Court N.E. (10.00 feet
wide).
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 370-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Gould Court N.W. (16.5 Feet Wide).
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the absence of Council Member Terrell H. Pruitt is hereby
authorized. Seconded by Council
Member Mitchell.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:49 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 6,
2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 133-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands located on the southwest corner of Fulton Road and Bailey Avenue to Two
Family Residential, and a ‘1’ Height
District or a Local Retail Business
District as indicated on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2402).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 320-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
located at Pershing and Interstate
77 to General Industry, an ‘A’ Area
District and a 3 Height District
(Map Change No. 2405).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:

21
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
L. Peculis, Acting Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 175-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
conditional bid of Tyco Integrated
Security, LLC, except for such terms
and conditions as are not acceptable
to the Director of Law and the
Director of Finance, for an estimated quantity of electronic protection
services, all items, for the various
divisions of City government, for the
period of three years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with two options to renew for additional one-year periods, received on
April 3, 2013, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 447-12, passed April 9,
2012, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$318,775.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the labor and materials necessary
for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such labor and materials,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 176-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on April 3, 2013 for an
estimated
quantity
of
landscape
materials, for various divisions of
City government, under the authority of Section 181.19 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.

NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 24, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 24, 2013
at 10:36 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.

715

Resolution No. 177-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
199-13, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on March 18, 2013,
Hylant Group is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement

The City Record

22
the regularly employed staff of the
Public Utilities Department to provide professional services necessary
to procure fire and extended coverage and real and personal property
insurance, including oil testing and
other risk management services, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power’s major facilities, including
1300 Lakeside Avenue, for a period
of one year with one one-year option
to renew, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract with
Hylant Group, based on its proposal
dated April 2013, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for the furnishing of professional services necessary to provide fire and extended
coverage, real and personal property insurance, including oil testing
and other risk management services
as described in the proposal, for a
premium consisting of $469,675.00
plus $25,000.00 for loss control services, for a total fee of $494,675.00,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANT

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Pinkney-Perry Insurance
Agency (MBE/CSB)

$5,078.00
1.03%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 178-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. for
the public improvement of Brainard
Road 16" Express Water Main,
including a $198,949.90 contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on January 31,
2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1692-12, passed December
3, 2012, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $2,188,448.90, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors by
Fabrizi
Recycling,
Inc.
for
the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Trafftech, Inc. (CSB)

$ 40,000.00
1.828%

RAR Contracting Company,
Inc. (CSB/MBE)
$480,000.00
21.933%

Simplified Alternatives, Inc.
(CSB/FBE)
$190,000.00
8.682%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 179-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of United Survey, Inc. for the
public improvement of St. Clair
Avenue
Sewer
Relining
Project
(Base Bid All Items including the
10% contingency allowance) for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on March 7, 2013, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 740-12,
passed June 4, 2012, upon a unit
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of $544,822.30, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by United Survey, Inc. for the above-menpublic
improvement
is
tioned
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Midtown Trucking
CSB/MBE
$12,000.00(2.203%)
Broadway Excavating
$120,000.00(22.03%)
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 180-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on March 14, 2013,
for Labor and Materials Necessary
to Repair and Maintain Supervisory
Control
and
Data
Acquisitions
(SCADA) System. for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 629-11,
passed June 6, 2011, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 181-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of American International Corp. for the public improvement of the 2013 Sidewalk Assessment Program, all items, for the
Division of Engineering and Con-

716

May 1, 2013
struction, Mayor’s Office of Capital
Projects, received on February 28,
2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1688-12 passed by Cleveland City Council on December 3,
2012, upon a unit price basis for the
improvement,
in
the
aggregate
amount of $1,025,134.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by American International, Corp. for the above-mentioned
public improvement is approved:
Dan Ray Construction,
LLC(CSB/MBE) — $216,000.00
(21.07%)
Tech Ready Mix
(CSB/MBE) — $93,000.00 (9.07%)
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 182-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1407-12, passed October 15, 2012 by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1541-12, passed October 22, 2012, the Director of Public
Works and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are authorized
to purchase certain properties from
Jerome T. Osborne and Concrete,
Inc. needed for Stage 3 of the Towpath Trail Project, as described in
Ordinance No 1407-12, as amended,
for a consideration that shall not
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control
which shall not exceed $500,000.00;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the consideration of $500,000.00 to be
paid Jerome T. Osborne and Concrete, Inc. for the purchase of certain properties, described in the
ordinance and needed for Stage 3 of
the Towpath Trail Project, is determined not to exceed fair market
value.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 183-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Big Trees, Inc., for an
estimated quantity of City-wide tree
planting initiative, re-bid, all Items,
for the Division of Park Maintenance, Department of Public Works,
for the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract,
with
a
one-year
renewal
option, received on February 28,
2013, under the authority of Section
No. 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated

May 1, 2013
quantity would amount to $125,024.94
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Works is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified goods and/or
services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the specified goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 184-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-08-087 located at 3160 West
61st Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Maggie’s Farm, LLC has
proposed to the City to lease and
develop the parcel for market garden; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of five years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Maggie’s Farm,
LLC for the lease and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 016-08-087
located at 3160 West 61st Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $5.00
per year, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Program.

The City Record
Yeas: None.
Nays: Directors Langhenry, Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Bender,
Cox, Acting Directors Cross, Eckart,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 185-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-15-139 located at 3478 West
63rd Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, NxGen Preserve has proposed to the City to lease and develop the parcel for a pocket park; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of five years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with NxGen Preserve
for the lease and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
016-15-139
located at 3478 West 63rd Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $5.00
per year, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Program.
Yeas: None.
Nays: Directors Langhenry, Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Bender,
Cox, Acting Directors Cross, Eckart,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 186-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and

717

23
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 130-16-052 (Southerly Portion)
located at 3436 East 149th Street in
Ward 1; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Lillie May Ashley has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 1 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Lillie May Ashley for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
130-16-052
(Southerly Portion) at 3436 East
149th Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 187-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 130-16-052 (Northerly Portion)
located at 3436 East 149th Street in
Ward 1; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, George Peterson and
Carol Peterson have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and

24
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 1 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with George Peterson
and Carol Peterson for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 130-16-052 (Northerly Portion) at
3436 East 149th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 188-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-09-119 located at 1472 East
115th Street in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Henry L. Cameron has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is

The City Record
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Henry
L.
Cameron for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12009-119 located at 1472 East 115th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $500.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 189-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-10-141 (South Easterly Portion)
located
at
11520
Kelton
Avenue in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Barbara J. Drew has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Barbara J. Drew
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 120-10-141 (South
Easterly Portion) located at 11520
Kelton Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,

718

May 1, 2013
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 190-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-10-141 (North Easterly Portion)
located
at
11520
Kelton
Avenue in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Frederick Walker has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Frederick Walker for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
120-10-141
(North Easterly Portion) located at
11520 Kelton Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 191-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-31-067 located at 3413 East
69th Street in Ward 12: and

May 1, 2013
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Albert and Barbara Foster have proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Albert and Barbara Foster for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12531-067 at 3413 East 69th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 192-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 023-15-057 located at 4484 West
149th Street in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Andrea Hess has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;

The City Record
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Andrea Hess for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 023-15-057 located at
4484 West 149th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 193-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-07-007 located at 3274 West
61st Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Edward Hulesch has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Edward Hulesch
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 016-07-007 located
at 3274 West 61st Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.

719

25
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
Resolution No. 194-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 131-36-010 located at 5701 Linton
Avenue in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Denise M. Schultz, Debra
A. Schultz and Bernadette J. Schultz
Meadows have proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcel
for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Denise
M.
Schultz,
Debra
A.
Schultz
and
Bernadette J. Schultz Meadows for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 131-36-010 located at
5701 Linton Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Bender, Cox, Acting Directors Cross,
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Smith and Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record

26
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

May 1, 2013

include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE

Birth certificates.

____________
Notarized letters or affidavits.
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2013
5/10/13 – 5/16/13

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
31

32

33

34

35

EE

WR

WR

EE

EE

Social Security card.

Exam
Type

Chief Safety
Signal System

N/C

Line Helper
Driver

Open

Police Traffic
Controller

Open

Public Safety
IT Manager
Administrative
Manager
(Public Health)

N/C

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 31
CHIEF SAFETY SIGNAL SYSTEM
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY

N/C

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2013.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $38,688.00 to $76,542.13 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2013.

720

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, oversees the
installation of safety signal systems.
Oversees installation and maintenance of police and fire boxes. Determines and assesses whether job
assignments can be performed internally or contracted out. Researches
fire box location needs, new equipment capabilities, and current equipment repair requirements. Interfaces
with City Council members concerning safety signal matters. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required, a Bachelor’s Degree in Business/Public
Administration,
Telecommunications, or Information
Systems is preferred. Three years of
full time paid experience in the installation, maintenance, and repair of
electronic key telephone equipment
of business telecommunications systems is required. Supervisory experience is required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

The City Record

May 1, 2013
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 32
LINE HELPER DRIVER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20.80 - $24.43 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MAY 16, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, drives
a line motor truck used in connection
with the installation and maintenance of electric lines and cables.
Assists linemen as directed. Performs
related duties as required. TYPICAL
TASKS: Drives a line truck, a pump
truck, or a tower truck to locations as
directed.
Operates
winches
and
hoists. Assists in the installation,
removal, relocation, and repair of
guys, crossarms, insulators, brackets,
braces, transformers, oil switches,
arresters, potheads, cut-outs, street
lamps, and high and low tension
cables. Assists in making temporary
repairs on lines and equipment.
Assists in clearing trouble on high
and low tension lines and equipment.
Assists in the installation and
removal of poles. Assists in digging
post holes and in framing, gaining,
shaving, and stepping poles. Strings
high and low tensions wires and
cables. Keeps tools and materials in
order to assemble crossarms and
racks for line workers. Renews fuses.
Otherwise assists line workers as
directed. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training class-

es and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Class
“A” Commercial Driver’s License is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 75 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

27
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, writes parking
tickets and calls for the towing of
vehicles from public throughways
and lands. Performs impound work.
Directs vehicular traffic and performs crowd and traffic control for
special events (races, parades, ball
games, etc.) and performs related
duties as required. (Employees are
prohibited from performing criminal
investigations or exercising their
authority on privately-owned premises.) Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 33
POLICE TRAFFIC CONTROLLER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary for this position as established by Ordinance of
the Council of the City of Cleveland is
$15.41 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MAY 16, 2013.

721

A High School Diploma or G.E.D is
required. A valid state of Ohio Driver’s License is required. Must be able
to stand and walk in all types of
weather for long periods of time.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

The City Record

28
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 34
PUBLIC SAFETY INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY MANAGER (NONCOMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $65,000.00 to $110,000.00 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative supervision,
directs and manages activities of the
Public Safety Office of Information
Technology (IT). Coordinates staff
involved in systems’ analyses work
related to the development of new IT

systems or the maintenance of existing IT systems. Plans, organizes,
manages, and staffs the technical
aspects of the Department of Public
Safety’s Office of IT, including application development, database administration, network infrastructure,
hardware maintenance/replacement,
standards, and software support.
Oversees evaluation, testing, and
acceptance of new hardware, software, or IT systems. Manages strategic planning and policy development
for information systems in collaboration with all Public Safety divisions.
Consults with other departments,
divisions, and contract vendors when
projects require association and coordinates joint activities. Develops and
monitors security systems for both
data and Public Safety facilities
where equipment is located and maintains contingency backup plan and
disaster recovery plan. Assures that
Core Rooms and equipment are fully
maintained and secured. Assures that
all maintenance contracts and license
agreements are maintained and current. Assists in the development of
RFPs and legislative summaries for
management. Assists in recruiting
efforts and employment offers. Manages and ensures response to customer service requests submitted to
Safety IT Helpdesk within the established service level agreements. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Service, Management Information Systems, or related field from an
accredited four-year college or university is required. Seven years of full
time paid experience in information
processing with a minimum of three
years of project management and
supervisory responsibilities (Three
years may be part of the seven years
of experience) is required. Project
Management
Certification
is
required. (Substitution: Two additional years of college education or two
additional years of progressively
responsible supervisory experience in
a large Public Safety IT environment
may substitute for certification.)
Must be computer proficient and
familiar with the Internet and have a
demonstrated knowledge of Microsoft
Project and be knowledgeable in
Microsoft Office Suites. Must have
demonstrated experience in Microsoft
Windows Servers and related servers
and services such as Domain Controller, Active Directory, Exchange,
DNS, Proxy, and various other
Microsoft Server/Utility Software as
well as Windows client software,
Visio Project, and other utilities. Must
be proficient with the most common
Enterprise software such as Enterprise Antivirus Solutions, Cisco
Works, network monitoring and

722

May 1, 2013
alerting systems, intrusion detection,
and prevention switches, and firewalls. Must have knowledge of various operating systems such as Unix,
Linux, and virtualization systems
and applications including CAD, dispatch/voice recording systems, RMS
systems, 800 MHz radio communications, VOIP, wireless surveillance
camera systems, mobile communications including automatic vehicle
locator systems, automated fingerprint identification systems, crime
reporting systems, photographic traffic enforcement systems, and LEADS.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required or must be obtained within
30 days of the date of hire if out-ofstate. Must be able to lift and carry a
minimum of 30 pounds. The following
are preferred: Knowledge of grants
and their potential application to Public Safety IT projects, specifically the
Urban Area Security Initiative Grant
Program and the State Homeland
Security Grant Program; Familiarity
with capital asset planning for shortand long-term budgetary requirements; Demonstrated experience in
managing similar-sized IT organizations or departments (e.g.: 3000+ Public Safety employees, 100+ external
IP addresses, 200,000+ internal IP
addresses, 85-100 physical and virtual
servers, 120+ routers and switches,
40+ physical locations); and MSCE or
CCNA Certifications.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 35
ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGER
(Public Health) (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $27,193.55 to $101,816.22 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013.

May 1, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, is
responsible for planning, managing,
coordinating, and administering all
activities and personnel of such staff
positions as administration, citizen
participation, research, and finance,
and supervises such personnel as are
assigned to specific functions in the
performance of the necessary duties.
(NECESSARY DUTIES: Supervises
and directs all HIV/STD disease
investigation and intervention teams.
Plans and participates in programs
related to the control of various communicable diseases inclusive of HIV
and Syphilis. Locates disease sources,
carriers, and at risk groups to prevent, treat, and thereby reduce the
incidence and risk to citizens. Provides information on disease etiology
and the prevention of communicable
and related health diseases. Consults
with physicians, medical groups, laboratories, community groups, schools,
voluntary agencies, and other organizations to enlist and maintain their
cooperation in a program of communicable disease prevention and control.) Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam). Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A Bachelor’s Degree from a four-year
accredited college or university with
major coursework in Health Education, Nursing, (i.e. RN or LPN) Psychology, or related field is required.
Six years of full time paid experience
in Public Health, Health Education,
and Community Organizing, which
includes 2 years medical counseling
experience, conducting epidemiological investigations, and/or surveillance activities involving communicable diseases. One year of management/ supervisory experience is
required. Skills in field investigation,
report writing, public speaking, training, and information dissemination

The City Record
are preferred. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking) Certification in Phlebotomy
as well as HIV Client Centered Counseling and Centers for Disease Control/STD course ISTDI-Introduction
to Sexually Transmitted Disease
Intervention
(Introduction
&
Advanced course are required. Training in blood borne pathogen (Introduction
and
Advance
course)
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required
NOTE: The eligible list for this exam
will be effective for only six months
from the date of approval by the Civil
Service Commission
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
May 1, 2013

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 13, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 10-259: 4300 Bradley
Road (Ward 12)
W.B.
and
M.E.
Bauman
and
Bradley Road, Incorporated appeal
under
Sections
329.01(e)
and
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordnances from the decision of the
Zoning Administrator dated June 18,
2010 to deny the application for
grading,
filling
and
excavation,
including mining, removal, transfer
and sale of soils and minerals on
acreage located in a General Industry District and consisting of parcel
numbers 009-36-001, 009-36-002, 00936,005, 009-36-006, 009-36-007, 009-34002 and 009-34-004; that as determined by the Zoning Administrator
of the Cleveland Building and Housing Department, the proposed grading/excavation use of the property
is not a use permitted as of right
under Section 345.04(a)(2) of the
Ordinances.
Codified
Cleveland
(Filed 12-8-10; Testimony Taken 4-1810; Motion for Rehearing Granted 516-10)
Calendar No. 10-260: 4300 Bradley
Road (Ward 12)
W.B.
and
M.E.
Bauman
and
Bradley Road, Incorporated appeal
under Sections 329.03 and 329.04 for
a use variance to allow grading, filling and excavation, including mining, removal, transfer and sale of
soils and minerals on acreage located in a General Industry District

723

29
and consisting of parcel numbers
009-36-001, 009-36-002, 009-36-005, 00936-006, 009-36-007, 009-34-002, and 00934-004, contrary to the regulations in
Sections 345.04(a) and (b) of the
Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances.
(Filed 12-8-10; Testimony Taken 4-1810; Motion for Rehearing Granted 516-10)
Calendar No. 10-194: 4300 Bradley
Road (Ward 12)
W.B.
and
M.E.
Bauman
and
Bradley Road, Incorporated appeal
for grading, filling and excavation,
including mining, removal, transfer
and sale of soils and minerals on
acreage located in a General Industry District and consisting of parcel
numbers 009-36-001, 009-36-002, 009-36005, 009-36-006, 009-36-007, 009-34-002,
and 009-34-004; where the proposed
use is subject to the limitations in
Section 345.04(b)(21) and shall not
have the effect or impact of being
more injurious, hazardous, noxious
or offensive than the enterprises
listed in division (b) of Section
345.04(b), including: asphalt or tar
manufacturing or refining; blast furnaces, ore smelting or reduction,
refining or smelting; carbon, coke or
lampblack manufacture; coal gas
manufacture;
cremation;
creosote
manufacture or treatment; dextrine,
glucose or starch manufacture; disinfectant or insecticide manufacture
which emits offensive odors; dye
stuffs manufacture; manufacture of
steel
by
the
Bessemer
process;
match manufacture; oil cloth or
linoleum manufacture; paper and
pulp manufacturing; reduction or
refining of petroleum or other flammable liquids; rock crushing; rubber
manufacture by reclaiming processes; stock feed manufacture from
refuse; tanning, curing or storing of
rawhides or skins; wool pulling or
scouring; and hair processing. Pursuant to Sections 352.08-12, a 10 foot
wide landscaped strip providing at
least 75 percent year-round opacity
is required where the General Industry zoned parcels abut residentially
zoned districts on the northerly and
easterly
proposed
parcel
project
lines;
and
vehicle
maneuvering
areas shall be surfaced with concrete, asphaltic concrete, asphalt or
paving
material
that
is
other
approved by the Chief Building Official for the City of Cleveland in
accordance with Codified Ordinance
Section 349.07. (Filed 10-6-10; Testimony Taken 4-18-10; Motion for
Rehearing Granted 5-16-10)
Postponement granted at mutual
request from appellants, their counsel and counsel for the City to have
landfill
violations
and
pending
issues resolved concerning the property in question.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 29,
2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.

The City Record

30
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-47: 806 Literary
Avenue
Sandy Banks LLC appealed for
use of an outdoor patio area and
construction of patio walls ion a C1
General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 13-55: 8200 Bessemer
Avenue
Sidako Bessemer I LLC appealed
to install 10-foot high electrified
fence in a B3 General Industry District.
Calendar No. 13-56: 6100 Truscon
Avenue (PPN 125-04-009)
Truscon Realty, LLC appealed to
install 10-foot high electrified fence
in a B3 General Industry District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-44: 3682 East 131st
Street
Wilson Fisher, Jr. appealed from
a denied application for a Motor
Vehicle Repair Garage License by
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

May 1, 2013

ates Limited Partnership, lessee,
appealed to install a temporary tent
for 180 days in a D1 University
Retail District.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-30: 1260 East 61st
Street
Jimmie Richard appealed from a
decision of the City of Cleveland
Parking Violations Bureau, Waste
Collection and Photo Safety Division.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on February 11, 2013 was
adopted and approved.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-08: 13933 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard
Mac’s Convenience Stores LLC
appealed for an addition, interior
and exterior alterations to an existing store with a gas station in a B1
Local Retail Business District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-53: 16003 Saranac
Road postponed to June 3, 2013.

Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 24, 2013
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *

Calendar No. 13-54: 1261 West 76th
Street postponed to June 17, 2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on April 22, 2013 were
adopted and approved on April 29,
2013:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-49: 1839 Fulton Road
Ohio City Tremont LLC, owner,
and George Preedy appealed to erect
a second floor triangular wooden
deck to an existing two family
dwelling in a B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-50: 4576-88 West
130th Street
Lander Day Care Center, Inc.,
owner, and FDBTS, LLC, prospective
purchaser, appealed to construct a
retail store on consolidated lots in a
C1 General Retail Business District;
subject to amended plan.
Calendar No. 13-51: 7945-8101 Broadway Avenue
Bud
Brady
Ford,
owner,
and
FDBTS, LLC, prospective purchaser,
appeal to construct a retail store on
consolidated lots in B2 Semi-Industry and C2 General Retail Business
Districts; subject to amended plan.
Calendar No. 13-52: 1901 Ford Drive
Case Western Reserve University,
owner, and Glidden House Associ-

Docket A-211-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Three Dwelling
Units Three-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
12424 Saywell Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 5, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-222-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
Story
Frame
Property,
One/half
located on the premises known as
1073 East 141st Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 24, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-223-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
11609 Temblett Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 8, 2012

724

of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-224-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the R-4 Residential –
Non-transient; Shared Living Areas
for 5-16 Persons Two Story Masonry
Property, located on the premises
known as 11209 Whitmore Avenue
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated August 6,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-225-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
12408 Saywell Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 7, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-226-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Three Dwelling
Units Three-Family Residence Two
Story Masonry Walls/Wood Floors
Property, located on the premises
known as 1443 Lakeview Road from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated August 7,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-237-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Three Dwelling
Units Three-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
12428 Tuscora Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 13, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-238-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 625 East
118th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated August 23,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-242-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One &
One/half Story Frame Property and
One Story Garage – Detached; Wood
Frame Property, located on the

May 1, 2013
premises known as 3672 East 54th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE &
GARAGE, dated August 21, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-243-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property
and Two Story Frame Garage Property, located on the premises known
as 17602 St. Clair Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
August 9, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-256-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3818 East 54th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 29, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-272-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
9418 Manor Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 26,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-273-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
474 East 125th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 21,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-274-12.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property and One Story
Garage – Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 7211 Indiana Avenue from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE,
dated September 18, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compli-

The City Record
ance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-77-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
12408 Saywell Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 7, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-78-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 2541 Cedar
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated January 25, 2013 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-98-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
4155 East 141st Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 7, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for any additional time and
to require that all the properties be
boarded, secured and maintained;
the properties are REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-69-13.
RE: Appeal of Edward J. Fischer,
Owner of the R-2 Residential – Nontransient;
Apartments
(Shared
Egress) Two & One/half Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 6925 Hosmer
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER, dated February 7, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to
complete
abatement
of
the
asbestos and demolition of the property; to require that the grounds and
the property remain debris-free and
as tidy as possible during that period of time; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further

725

31
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-8-13 —
Inc.
A-9-13 —
ringer
A-10-13 —
A-14-13 —
Assembly
A-17-13 —
A-87-13 —
Gray Jr.

Shakerlan
Dorothy

Properties,

Marshall-Bar-

Lucretia Russell
Strongtower Christian
Talia Collins
Richard M. & Adrienne

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-11-13
A-12-13
A-15-13
A-16-13
A-18-13
A-19-13
A-23-13

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Dana Word Sr.
Rios Properties, Inc.
Renard Parnell II
Mary Battle
Michael O’Bannon
Ovidiu Sarsama
Don R. Blake

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-13-13 — Grassroot Innovations
LLC
A-21-13 — Marcelline Properties
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
March 27, 2013
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

The City Record

32
PUBLIC NOTICE
Public notice is hereby given that
the
City
of
Cleveland
Public
Records Committee will hold a Regular Meeting on Thursday, May 30,
2013 in the City Law Department’s
South Conference Room, located at
Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, East, Room 106, commencing at 9:00 a.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.
Maureen Harper, Chair

April 24, 2013, May 1, 2013, May 8,
2013, May 15, 2013 and May 22, 2013

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 15, 2013
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, May 15, 2013, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 754-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the south side
of Platt Ave. between E. 82nd St.
and E. 83 St. to Open Space and
Recreation (Map Change No. 2326;
Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 825-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the zoning of the Southern Half of the property located at 1805 Spring Road to
Urban Garden District. (Map Change
No. 2335, Sheet No. 2)
Ord. No. 603-11.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height District of land
located on the north and south sides
of Hough Avenue between E. 55th
Street and E. 75th Street to MultiFamily Residential District, a ‘D’
Area District and a ‘2’ Height District(Map Change No. 2362, Sheet
Numbers 4 & 5).
Ord. No. 1559-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of lands located at the
intersection of Clark Avenue and W.
65th Street to Local Retail Business
and changing Use District of lands
north of Storer Ave. between W.
63rd St. and W. 67 Place to General
Industry as shown shaded on the
map (Map Change Number 2427).
Ord. No. 25-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands on the
north and south sides of Lorain
Avenue between West Boulevard

and W. 94th Street shown shaded on
the attached map to Local Retail
Business and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2428).
Ord. No. 505-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Groh Mansion as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 506-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Stockbridge Apartment
Building as a Cleveland Landmark.

May 1, 2013
tions for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013

Ord. No. 512-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) on
and changing the Use District of
lands located at E. 156 St. and Calcutta Avenue from a Two Family
Residential District to Local Retail
Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a
‘2’ Height District (Map Change No.
2430).
Ord. No. 572-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on the north side
of Fairlawn Avenue at W. 146th
Street to Semi-Industry conditioned
upon attached Site Development
Plan (Map Change No. 2432).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
May 1, 2013 and May 8, 2013

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

File No. 72-13 — Paint and Paint
Supplies, for the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized
by Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 3, 2013 AT 11:00 A.M.
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114
April 24, 2013 and May 1, 2013
WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 2013
File No. 73-13 — Purchase of Large
Capacity Truck Rentals, for the
Division of Streets, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 1694-12, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, February 11, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
STREETS, ROOM 25, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

For All Departments
April 24, 2013 and May 1, 2013
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applica-

726

THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013
File No. 70-13 — Denison Avenue
Public Improvements Roadway
Rehabilitation from Ridge Road
to Denison Bridge over SR176 and
Underground
138KV
Transmission Circuit Infrastructure, for
the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 908-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 8, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY DOLLARS ($150.00)
ONLY IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
DIVISION
OF
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION,
ROOM
518,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

May 1, 2013
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
April 24, 2013 and May 1, 2013
FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013
File No. 69-13 — Erie Street and
Monroe Street Cemetery Structure
Improvements, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 537-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 14, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
DIVISION OF
ARCHITECTURE AND SITE DEVELOPMENT, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 71-13 — Purchase of Various Pool Chemicals, for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Public Works, as authorized by
Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2013 AT 11:30 A.M.
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, THE
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION,
ROOM
8,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 74-13 — Crane and Hoist
Inspection and Maintenance, for
the Divisions of Water, Cleveland
Public Power, Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1630-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 3, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 24, 2013 and May 1, 2013

The City Record
WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 2013
File No. 75-13 — First Energy Stadium Insurance, for the Division
of First Energy Stadium, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Section 181.101 Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 14, 2013 AT 11:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
May 1, 2013 and May 8, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 372-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the City’s initiative to establish
a Sustainable Municipal Building
Policy which will incorporate green
building practices into the siting,
design,
construction,
remodeling,
repair, maintenance, operation and
deconstruction of all City facilities.
Whereas, in August, 2009, the
Mayor, in partnership with members
of this Council, initiated Sustainable
Cleveland 2019, a 10-year plan to
engage people from all walks of life
to work together to design and
develop a thriving and resilient
Cleveland region using “sustainable”
or “green” methods and practices;
and
Whereas, in May, 2012, the City
joined the Cleveland 2030 District,
which works to create a coalition of
building owners, service professionals and community stakeholders
working together to rapidly transform the building environment of
the city through large-scale reductions in energy use, water use and
greenhouse gas emissions; and
Whereas, also in May 2012, the
City joined the Better Buildings
Challenge,
a
White
House
and
Department of Energy initiative; as
part of the Challenge, the city has
committed to publicly share its energy data and reduce its building
energy usage 20% from 2010 levels
by 2020; and
Whereas, data shows that the City
spends more than $50 million dollars
annually on energy and utilities for
its municipal operations; and
Whereas, through its use of federal funding from the Energy Efficiency
and
Conservation
Block
Grant program, the City has initiated several energy and sustainability projects for city buildings and
the community; and
Whereas, the City has recently
completed three new construction
projects that were constructed to
meet Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design (LEED) certification
standards:
Collinwood
Recreation
Center,
the
Kirtland
Pump Station and the Bike Rack;
and
Whereas, most recently the City
adopted a Sustainable Municipal
Building Policy which outlines minimum requirements that City departments and divisions must take when
siting,
designing,
constructing,

727

33
remodeling, repairing, maintaining,
operating and deconstructing city
facilities; and
Whereas, the Policy mandates
that all occupied City-owned new
construction and major renovations
over 10,000 square feet, including
building additions, and entering the
design phase after January 1, 2013,
shall achieve LEED Silver certification or higher and meet certain listed minimum performance levels; and
Whereas, the Policy further mandates that all city-owned new construction under 10,000 square feet
shall strive to achieve LEED Silver
certification or higher, as well as
meet certain listed minimum performance levels; and
Whereas, green building is a
proactive way to guard against the
rising costs of materials, construction, waste removal and energy, and
studies have shown that reasonable
levels of sustainable design can be
incorporated
into
most
building
types at little or no additional cost;
and
Whereas, the Policy states that
the City shall seek financing from
federal, state and local sources in
order to facilitate projects at a level
suitable to meet Policy standards;
and
Whereas, this Council, as a strong
supporter of this Policy, has asked
that
the
administration
provide
annual progress reports regarding
the execution of the Policy; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the City’s initiative to establish a Sustainable Municipal Building Policy which will incorporate
green building practices into the siting, design, construction, remodeling, repair, maintenance, operation
and deconstruction of all City facilities.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 169-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Dow, Polensek, Brancatelli and Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 453.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2255-05,
passed December 8, 2008, adding
Martin Luther King Day as a day
on which parking meter zone regulations shall not apply.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 453.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleve-

34
land, Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance No 2255-05, passed December
8, 2008, is amended as follows:
Section 453.01 Parking Regulations in Parking Meter Zones
(a) No person shall park a vehicle in a space adjacent to a street
parking meter unless the curb side
wheels of such a vehicle are parallel with and not more than twelve
(12) inches from the curb. The front
and rear extremities of the vehicle
shall be between adjacent meter
posts or not more than three (3) feet
from the post of an end meter.
Whenever a vehicle is parked in a
street parking meter zone where a
meter has been installed, the person
parking such vehicle shall deposit
in such parking meter a coin of
United States money of the denomination designated on the plates
attached to such parking meter, if
such meter displays the signal
showing that legal parking is only
permitted on such deposit.
(b) The coins required in parking
meter zones shall be as follows:
(1) In the Downtown Parking
Area, as defined in Section 403.04,
but excluding Institutional Areas, as
defined herein, twenty-five cents
($0.25) per twenty (20)-minute period;
(2) In Institutional Areas, fifty
cents ($0.50) per hour or any portion
thereof. For purposes of this section,
an “Institutional Area” means the
area adjacent to any hospital or educational institution in the City;
(3) In all other areas of the City,
twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour or
any portion thereof.
(c) Notice to the public shall be
given by appropriate signs, setting
forth the length of time for which
parking is permitted and the conditions thereof. These may be upon the
parking meter stand or in the immediate vicinity. Any vehicle which
remains in a metered parking zone
after the prescribed time for parking
is hereby determined to be illegally
parked. At each place where street
metered parking zones are so established as provided in Section 403.06
and are so marked off, each vehicle
shall be parked entirely within a
metered parking zone space. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to vehicles parking upon the street of
the City between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
in the evening until 7:00 a.m. the following morning and upon Saturdays,
Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial
Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day,
and Martin Luther King Day, unless a
different rule or regulation is otherwise set forth in this Traffic Code,
and shall not apply to any parking
meter space in the downtown parking
area, as defined in Section 403.04, on
the day after Thanksgiving (“Black
Friday”) and December 26th.
Section 2. That existing Section
453.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2255-05, passed December 8, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 245-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association
to conduct a city-wide football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into contract with the Cleveland
Municipal Football Association to
conduct a city-wide football program
and to pay participant entry fees, in
an amount not to exceed $80,098,
payable from Fund No. 01-7004-6380,
Request No. RQS 7004, RL 2013-10.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 246-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Neighborhood Leadership Institute
to
implement
educational,
recreational and cultural programs in
various school buildings and recreation centers during evening hours,
provide
leadership
training
and
supervise the summer tennis program.
Whereas, based on recommendations made by the Cleveland Summit
on Education, certain pilot programs
were created; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement
educational, recreational and cultural
programs in various school buildings and recreation centers during
evening hours, provide leadership
training and supervise the summer
tennis program, in an amount not to
exceed $289,511, payable from Fund
Nos. 01-7004-6380, Request No. RQS
7004, RL 2013-14.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

728

May 1, 2013
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 357-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to MIKE & EDDIE
PROPERTY INVESTMENT LLC to
encroach into the public right-ofway
of
Denison
Avenue
by
installing, using, and maintaining a
parking lot and to acquire an easement from MIKE & EDDIE PROPERTY INVESTMENT LLC for sidewalk purposes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to MIKE & EDDIE
PROPERTY
INVESTMENT
LLC,
7100 Denison Avenue, Cleveland,
to
Ohio,
44102
(“Permittee”),
encroach into the public right-ofway
of
Denison
Avenue
by
installing, using, and maintaining a
parking area, and to acquire an
easement from MIKE & EDDIE
PROPERTY INVESTMENT LLC for
sidewalk purposes at the following
locations:
Parking Lot Encroachment
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
26, 27, 34, and 35, and being a 4 foot
strip of land within the Right-of-Way
of Denison Avenue (width varies) as
Widened in Volume 182, Page 43 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Said 4 foot strip abuts the northerly
Right-of-Way of said Denison Avenue
at a point 78.62 feet west of the southeasterly corner of property conveyed
to Mike and Eddie Property Investment L.L.C. by deed recorded in AFN
201007090232 and 233, and runs west
along the northerly Right-of-Way of
Denison Avenue for a total distance
of 191.17 feet to a point of reverse curvature.
Be the same, more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements, according to a legal description prepared by Louise A. Veverka,
dated January 28, 2013.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before installing the encroachment(s).

May 1, 2013
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
that the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to acquire
certain easement rights from Permittee, in and to the premises described,
at no cost to the City, for the sidewalk
purposes, more fully described as follows:
Sidewalk Easement
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
26, 27, 34, and 35, and being two
parcels on the northerly Right-ofWay of Denison Avenue (width
varies) as Widened in Volume 182,
Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records.
Parcel 1
Beginning at the southeasterly corner of property conveyed to Mike and
Eddie Property Investment L.L.C. by
deed recorded in AFN 201007090232
and 233;
Thence North 63° 37' 15" West, 74.68
feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BEGINNING of a parcel of land herein
described;
Thence North 63° 37' 15" West, 3.95
feet;
Thence North 65° 09' 15" West, 26.48
feet;
Thence North 85° 04' 17" East, 14.54
feet;
Thence South 67° 25' 29" East, 6.46
feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BEGINNING.
Parcel 2
Beginning at the southwesterly corner of property conveyed to Mike and
Eddie Property Investment L.L.C. by
deed recorded in AFN 201007090232
and 233;
Thence 24.93 feet along the arc of a
curve deflecting to the left having a
radius of 543.69 feet and a chord of
24.93 feet which bears South 58° 24'
54" East to the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BEGINNING of a parcel of land
herein described;
Thence South 79° 46' 09" East, 24.57
feet;
Thence South 34° 35' 15" East, 11.33
feet;
Thence South 04° 35' 33" East, 6.82
feet;
Thence 23.29 feet along the arc of a
curve deflecting to the right having a
radius of 543.69 feet and a chord of
23.29 feet which bears North 56° 51'
13" West to a point of reverse curvature;
Thence 14.00 feet along the arc of a
curve deflecting to the left, having a
radius of 543.69 feet and a chord of
14.00 feet which bears North 56° 21'
50" West to the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BEGINNING.

The City Record
Be the same, more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements, according to a legal description prepared by Louise A. Veverka,
dated February 19, 2013.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
all documents, on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, necessary to acquire certain rights in and to the premises.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary to
acquire the easement authorized in
this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 367-13.
By Council Members Miller, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional
consultants to analyze the performance of the department, including
its divisions, and to recommend
strategic and operational improvements leading to cost savings, operational efficiencies, and streamlining of service delivery.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Works
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to analyze the performance of the Department of Public Works, including its divisions,
and to recommend strategic and
operational improvements leading to
cost savings, operational efficiencies, and streamlining of service
delivery.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Works for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Works, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall not
exceed $300,000 and shall be paid from
funds appropriated in 2013 for this
purpose.

729

35
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works shall report to the Chair of
the Finance Committee on the consultant’s findings ninety (90) days after
completion of the study.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 430-13.
By Council Members Miller, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts
with City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate
with various non-profit agencies.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with City
Year to perform community service
work and to collaborate with nonprofit agencies, in an amount not to
exceed
$75,000.00,
payable
from
Fund No. 01-7004-6380, Request No.
RQS 7004, RL 2013-31.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 503-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland, Kelley, Cimperman, J.
Johnson, Polensek, Zone, Westbrook,
Brady, Pruitt, Brancatelli, Mitchell
and Miller (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the State of Ohio, by and
through the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, to terminate the
Lease Agreement for the lease of certain lakefront lands and properties
along Lake Erie.
Whereas, the City and State of
Ohio, by and through the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources,
(the “State”) entered into a Lease
for certain Lakefront Lands dated
as of April 26, 1978 and recorded in
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office in Volume 526, Page 973, as
amended, (the “State Lease”); and
Whereas, pursuant to the State
Lease, the City leased to the State the
following lakefront parks and properties located in Cleveland, Ohio along
Lake Erie: (i) Edgewater Park; (ii)
the portion of East 55th Street/Gor-

36
don Park that is north of I-90 (including, among other things, the East 55th
Street ODNR Headquarters and the
East 72nd Street Maintenance Facility and Fishing Area); (iii) Euclid
Beach
Park;
and
(iv)
Villa
Angela/Wildwood Park (collectively,
the “Lakefront Parks”); and
Whereas, the State currently manages and operates marinas at East
55th Street (the “E55th Street Marina”), Edgewater Park (the “Edgewater Marina”) and Wildwood Park (the
“Wildwood Marina”; the E55th Street
Marina, the Edgewater Marina and
the Wildwood Marina are hereinafter
referred to collectively as the “Marinas”); and
Whereas, the Edgewater Marina,
E55th Street Marina and Wildwood
Marina are operated by concessionaires pursuant to concession agreements
(the
“Marina
Concession
Agreements”); and
Whereas, the State has subleased
the Edgewater Yacht Club, Forest
City Yacht Club, Inner-City Yacht
Club, Lakeside Yacht Club and Wildwood Yacht Club (collectively the
“Yacht Clubs”) to private operators
under individual subleases (collectively, the “Yacht Club Subleases”);
and
Whereas, the State has entered into
various food and service concession
agreements relating to the Lakefront
Parks (collectively, the “Service Concession Agreements”); and
Whereas, the Lakefront Parks,
Marinas, Yacht Clubs and all other
related buildings, easements, appurtenances, improvements and personal
property located within or relating to
the Lakefront Parks are hereinafter
referred to collectively as the “Lakefront Park Properties;” and
Whereas, the State owns the
approximately 13.47 acre parcel park
known as Villa Angela Park; and
Whereas, the parties share the common goal to protect public safety,
physical assets and public property
while providing for the appropriate
use and access to the Lakefront Parks
by the general public and private
interest in a manner most conducive
to the public health, safety and welfare; and
Whereas, in furtherance of these
goals, the parties have agreed to
transfer the operation, management
and control of the Lakefront Parks to
the Board of Park Commissioners of
the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District “Metroparks” consistent with
Metroparks’ strategic plan entitled
“Cleveland Metroparks 2020: The
Emerald Necklace Centennial Plan”
(the “Strategic Plan’); and
Whereas, the State, on behalf of its
Division of Watercraft wishes to
enter into a 99-year lease with City for
its existing boat dock structures and
related improvements located on the
west side of the “Tract - East 55th
Street Marina” , the “Watercraft Marina Lease”; and
Whereas, The Ohio General Assembly and the Governor have through
the passage of Am. Sub. H. B. #51, section #503.20, Department of Natural
Resources Parks Special Purposes,
appropriation line item 725509 have
appropriated,
$14,000,000.00
(the
“Transition Fund”) to be provided to
the City to assist in the operations
and maintenance of the Lakefront
Parks; and
Whereas, the State and City have
agreed to the terms of a Memorandum
of Agreement under which the parties
agree among other things, to the fol-

The City Record
lowing: the State Lease with the City
for the Lakefront Parks may be terminated, the City may accept assignment of all Marina Concession Agreements, Yacht Club Subleases, Service
Concession Agreements, any and all
personal property related to the operation of the Lakefront Parks, the City
may acquire Villa Angela Park from
the State, the City may enter into the
Watercraft Marina Lease with the
State , and the City may accept the
Transition funds from the State, all in
furtherance of an orderly transition
of the operation of the Lakefront
Park Properties from the State to
Metroparks; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any ordinance to the contrary, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a Memorandum
of Agreement with the State of Ohio,
by and through the Ohio Department
of Natural Resources, to terminate
the Lease Agreement for the abovestated purposes, substantially in the
form of agreement contained in File
No. 503-13-B, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten.
Section 2. That the Memorandum of
Agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain any
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the City.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other
agreements, documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect this ordinance, including
but not limited to any conveyances,
assignments, leases, and acceptance
of funds.
Section 4 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 504-13.
By Council Members Polensek,
Westbrook, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Cleveland, Kelley, Cimperman, Zone,
Brady, Pruitt, Brancatelli, Mitchell
and Miller (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
the Board of Park Commissioners of
the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to lease certain City-owned lakefront parks, including Villa Angela
Park.
Whereas, the City and State of
Ohio, by and through the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources,
(the “State”) entered into a Lease
for certain Lakefront Lands dated
as of April 26, 1978 and recorded in
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office in Volume 526, Page 973, as
amended, (the “State Lease”); and
Whereas, pursuant to the State
Lease, the City leased to the State

730

May 1, 2013
the following lakefront parks and
properties located in Cleveland, Ohio
along Lake Erie: (i) Edgewater
Park; (ii) the portion of East 55th
Street/Gordon Park that is north of
I-90 (including, among other things,
the East 55th Street ODNR Headquarters and the East 72nd Street
Maintenance Facility and Fishing
Area); (iii) Euclid Beach Park; and
(iv) Villa Angela/Wildwood Park
(collectively,
the
“Lakefront
Parks”); and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 503-13, passed April
22, 2013 this Council authorized the
termination of the State Lease,
which provided for among other
things, that the City accept assignment of all Lakefront Parks Marina
Concession Agreements, Yacht Club
Subleases, Service Concession Agreements, any and all personal property related to the operation of the
Lakefront Parks, that Villa Angela
Park be conveyed to the City, and
that the City accept the transition
funds from the State in the amount
of $14,000,000, (”Transition Funds”)
all in furtherance of an orderly transition of the operation of the Lakefront Park Properties from the State
to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park District (“Metroparks”); and
Whereas, Metroparks is authorized to acquire and/or lease real
property for the conservation of the
natural resources of the State of
Ohio and to develop, improve, protect and promote the use of parks
pursuant and subject to the provisions of Chapter 1545 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas,
in
furtherance
of
Metroparks’ goals and purpose and
consistent
with
the
Metroparks’
strategic plan entitled “Cleveland
Metroparks 2020: The Emerald Necklace Centennial Plan” (the “Strategic Plan’), Metroparks has agreed to
lease and assume control, operation
and management of the Lakefront
Parks, including Villa Angela Park,
and the City has agreed to lease the
Lakefront Parks, including Villa
Angela Park, to Metroparks and otherwise assist in connection with the
transition of the operation of the
Lakefront Park Properties from the
State to Metroparks; and
Whereas, Metroparks has agreed
to make certain capital improvements to the Lakefront Parks; and
Whereas, the City and Metroparks
have agreed to the terms of a Lease
Agreement under which the parties
agree among other things, to the following: the City will transfer all
Lakefront
Parks
to
Metroparks,
including Villa Angela Park, the
City will assign to Metroparks all
Marina
Concession
Agreements,
Yacht Club Subleases and Service
Concession Agreements, the City
will transfer to Metorparks all personal property related to the operation of the Lakefront Parks, and the
City will transfer the Transition
Funds to Metroparks, which funds
shall be used by Metroparks to
assist in the operation and maintenance of the Lakefront Parks; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

May 1, 2013
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any ordinance to the contrary, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a Lease Agreement with the Metroparks for the
above-stated purposes, substantially
in the form of agreement contained
in File No. 504-13-B, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten.
Section 2. That the Lease Agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain any
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the City.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other
agreements, documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Lease Agreement shall require a representative
from the Metroparks to report annually, beginning upon execution of the
Lease, to the Clerk of Council concerning activities under the Lease.  A
representative from the Metroparks
may be required to appear before a
committee of Council, and shall
appear if required.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 571-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
with LeadsOnline LLC for professional services necessary to provide
access to an on-line automated scrap
materials and used goods transaction information management system, including on-going training and
support services, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
LeadsOnline LLC for professional
services necessary to provide access
to an on-line automated scrap materials and used goods transaction
information management system on
the basis of its proposal dated
August 30, 2012, in the total sum of
$59,841.00, for the Department of
Public Safety, including on-going
training and support services, for a
period not to exceed one year. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 01-8501-6415 and 10
SF 025, Request No. RQS 6001, RL
2013-7.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

The City Record
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 573-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Office of Capital Projects to issue a
permit to the Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
to stretch banners on Detroit at W.
57th & W. 65th just south of Detroit
for the period from April 29, 2013 to
May 20, 2013, inclusive, sponsoring
the Cleveland Orchestra At Home In
Gordon Square event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Office
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit
to the Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to install,
maintain and remove banners on
Detroit at W. 57th & W. 65th just
south of Detroit for the period from
April 29, 2013 to May 20, 2013, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Office of Capital
Projects, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 574-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Office of Capital Projects to issue a
permit to the National Charitable
Fund to stretch banners across E.
79th and Hough & across Lexington
and E. 55th for the period from April
24, 2013 to May 20, 2013, inclusive,
sponsoring the Annual Health Fair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

731

37
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Office
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit
to the National Charitable Fund to
install, maintain and remove across
street banners E. 79th and Hough
and across Lexington and E. 55th,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Office
of Capital Projects, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 25, 2013.

Ord. No. 580-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$23,500,000 for the purpose of providing funds for bridges and roadway improvements and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Twenty
Three Million Five Hundred ThouDollars
($23,500,000)
(the
sand
“Series 2013 Bonds”) to finance the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section  1; and
Whereas, the Series 2013 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Series 2013
Bonds is at least five (5) years and
the maximum maturity of the Series
2013 Bonds is nineteen (19) years,
as evidenced by the certificate contained in File No. 580-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
that are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City, and as a result,
this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety, and for the usual daily operation

38
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Series 2013
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Twenty-Three
Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($23,500,000) for the purpose of
providing funds to improve the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including streets, expressways, roadways, driveways, retaining walls, underground vaults, sidewalks and pedestrian walkways, by
acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening,
grading, draining, paving, resurfacing, lighting and curbing, removing
or
reconstructing
underground
vaults to preserve the public right
of way; installing gutters, sidewalks
and
related
pedestrian
improvements; constructing and improving
culverts; constructing sanitary sewers and water lines; resetting and
constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities; constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges;
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose;
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with all
necessary and incidental appurtenances, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Revised Code and
such other costs of the foregoing
permanent improvements that may
be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee

The City Record
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”) and one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013 Bonds and any additional
bonds issued under the Indenture are
collectively referred to in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013
Bonds. The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2013 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2013 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the
Fourth Supplement identified in Section 7. The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
designated “Bridges and Roadway
Improvement Bonds, Series 2013” and
may contain such further designation
as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Series 2013 Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
whole multiple thereof. The Series
2013 Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Series 2013 Bonds shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2013 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2013

732

May 1, 2013
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2013 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2013 Bonds shall not exceed
six per cent (6.00%) per year. Interest
on the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1, or such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the
“Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
no later than August  1, 2033. The
Series 2013 Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as serial
Series 2013 Bonds or as term Series
2013 Bonds payable prior to stated
maturity pursuant to sinking fund
redemption (the “Term Bonds”). The
Director of Finance shall determine
in the Certificate of Award whether
any of the Series 2013 Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013
Bonds are issued as Term Series 2013
Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to the
redemption date, on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates. The aggregate of
the moneys to be deposited with the
Trustee for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fourth Supplement).
The Series 2013 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2013 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond

May 1, 2013
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fourth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2013
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2013
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013 Bonds.
The Series 2013 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of
Award (the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall specify the final terms of the Series 2013
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor
retained under authority of Section 12
and the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Series 2013 Bonds,
including: the principal amount of the
Series 2013 Bonds (which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section
1), the purchase price (which shall be
not less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to their
date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), terms and conditions
under which any Series 2013 Bonds
may be redeemed prior to maturity at
the option of the City, the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Series 2013 Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 3) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, Director of Finance,
Director of Law, Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the City
are, and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013 Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013 Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the Series
2013 Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript
certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments and
to take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 2013 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the City
and the Original Purchaser (the

The City Record
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013 Bonds on terms consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fourth Supplement, are
in the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2013 Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fourth Supplement”), supplementing the Indenture to provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of the Series 2013
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013 Bonds, defeasance
of the Series 2013 Bonds, and other
terms consistent with this Ordinance
and the Certificate of Award and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Fourth Supplement shall be
approved as to form by the Director of
Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that the provisions of
the Fourth Supplement are not substantially adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of the Fourth Supplement. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and
Fourth Supplement as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Series 2013 Bonds and to consum-

733

39
mate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Twenty
Three Million Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars
($23,500,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding three percent
(3.00%) per year, and shall be
payable on the date or dates, as shall
be determined by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior to
maturity without penalty, unless the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, that the Notes
not be redeemable prior to maturity or
that a premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadway Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise provided in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess
of
twenty-five
percent
(25.00%) per year. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying

40
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2013 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2013 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2013 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2013 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial

The City Record
owners of the Notes or the Series 2013
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i)  the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
to be and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(iii) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (A)
apply the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purpose of
the borrowing, (B) restrict the yield
on investment property, (C) make
timely and adequate payments to the
federal government, (D) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports and (E)  refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds and
any Notes is hereby authorized (i) to
make or effect any election, selection,
designation,
choice,
consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Series 2013
Bonds and any Notes as the City is
permitted to or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections available
under Section 148 of the Code, for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment or
tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes or interest thereon, or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,

734

May 1, 2013
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (ii) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2013
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2013 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings

The City Record

May 1, 2013
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2013 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2013 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2013 Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of

such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2013 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2013 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed April 22, 2013.
Effective April 22, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, April 29, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;

41
Keane, Kelley, Polensek. Authorized
Absence: J. Johnson, Vice Chair;
Conwell.
11:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee
Present: Miller, Chair; Cummins,
Vice Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane,
Polensek,
Pruitt,
Sweeney.
1:30 p.m.
City
Planning
Committee,
&
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Keane, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Conwell, Dow.
Pro tempore: Pruitt, Brancatelli. Present in Finance: Kelley, Chair;
Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Miller.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Tuesday, April 30, 2013
1:30 p.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice Chair; J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Cummins.
Wednesday, May 1, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins,
Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Cummins,
Dow,
Kelley,
Authorized
Miller,
Polensek.
Absence: Conwell, Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Jane Fumich, Director, Department of Aging — Grant — Cleveland Foundation (F 624-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, and Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Community Development Department (O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Agreements
Asiatown Cultural Center Planning Project — Promote Asian Community & Cultural Center —
City Planning Commission — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward 08 NCF)
(O 630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Grant Agreement — Revenue Assistance Corporation — Economic
Development Assistance to relocate 4780 Hinckley Parkway (O 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational, Recreational and Cultural Programs — School Buildings And Recreation Centers
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — Summer Tennis Program (O 246-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

735

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728

The City Record

42

May 1, 2013

Appropriations
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG And Home Funds — Community Development
Department (O 605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-Predatory Lending And Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — Contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building
and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community Development
Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community Development Department —
Public Works Department (O 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, And Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Aging Department — Community Development
Department (O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
Capital Projects (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Detroit Ave. at West 57th &
West 65th St. — April 29 to May 20 — Cleveland Orchestra At Home In Gordon Square
Event — Capital Projects (Ward 15) (O 573-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
National Charitable Fund — various locations — April 24 to May 20 — Annual Health Fair —
Capital Projects (Ward 07) (O 574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Benham Avenue, 12309, (Ward 4) – Mary Battle, owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Avenue, 2541, (Ward 5) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-78-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Connecticut Avenue, 8512, (Ward 2) – Rios Properties, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-12-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th Street, 3603, (Ward 6) – Don R. Blake, owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 625, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-238-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 3445, (Ward 6) – Grassroot Innovations LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-13-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 125th Street, 474, (Ward 10) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-273-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 139th Street, 3587, (Ward 4) – Dorothy Marshall-Barringer, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-9-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 1073, (Ward 10) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-222-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 4155, (Ward 1) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-98-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 936, (Ward 10) – Strongtower Christian Assembly, owner — appeal
adopted on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-14-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 142nd Street, 4333, (Ward 1) – Renard Parnell II, owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-15-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 151st Street, 3834, (Ward 2) – Michael O’Bannon, owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-18-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 175th Street , 4628, (Ward 1) – Dana Word, Sr., owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-11-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 54th Street, 3672, (Ward 12) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-242-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 54th Street, 3818, (Ward 12) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-256-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 4106, (Ward 12) – Marcelline Properties, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-21-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 89th Street, 2218, (Ward 6) – Talia Collins, owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street, 2339, (Ward 6) – Lucretia Russell, owner — appeal adopted on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-10-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hosmer Avenue, 6925, (Ward 12) – Edward J. Fischer, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-69-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Indiana Avenue, 7211, (Ward 12) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-274-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeview Road, 1443, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-226-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

736

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

May 1, 2013

The City Record

Larchmere Avenue, 12635, (Ward 6) – Shakerlan Properties, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-8-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manor Avenue, 9418, (Ward 4) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-272-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saywell Avenue, 12408, (Ward 15) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-77-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saywell Avenue, 12408, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-225-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saywell Avenue, 12424, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-211-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 17602, (Ward 11) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-243-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temblett Avenue, 11609, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-223-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tuscora Avenue, 12428, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/24/13
(Doc. A-237-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 52nd Street, 3472, (Ward 15) – Ovidiu Sarsama, owner — appeal adopted on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2136, (Ward 3) – Richard M. and Adrienne Gray, Jr., owners — appeal
adopted on 4/24/13 (Doc. A-87-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whitmore Avenue, 11209, (Ward 9) – Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/24/13 (Doc. A-224-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Sidewalk Assessment Program, 2013 — per Ord. 1688-12 to American International Corp. —
Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 181-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Insurance; fire, extended, real and personal property — per Ord. 199-13 to Hylant Group —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 177-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 115th Street, 1472 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-09-119 — Henry L. Cameron (BOC Res. 188-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3436 (Ward 1) — PPN 130-16-052 (northerly portion) — George Peterson
and Carol Peterson (BOC Res. 187-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3436 (Ward 1) — PPN 130-16-052 (southerly portion) — Lillie May Ashley
(BOC Res. 186-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 69th Street, 3413 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-31-067 — Albert and Barbara Foster (BOC Res. 191-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelton Avenue, 11520 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-10-141 (northeasterly portion) — Frederick Walker
(BOC Res. 190-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelton Avenue, 11520 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-10-141 (southeasterly portion) — Barbara J. Drew
(BOC Res. 189-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linton Avenue, 5701 (Ward 12) — PPN 131-36-010 — Denise M. Schultz, Debra A. Schultz and
Bernadette J. Schultz-Meadows (BOC Res. 194-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 149th Street, 4484 (Ward 18) — PPN 023-15-057 — Andrea Hess (BOC Res. 192-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 61st Street, 3160 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-08-087 — lease — Maggie’s Farm, LLC — rejected
(BOC Res. 184-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 61st Street, 3274 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-07-007 — Edward Hulesch (BOC Res. 193-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3478 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-15-139 — lease — NxGen Preserve —
rejected (BOC Res. 185-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

718
717
717
718
718
718
719
719
717
719
717

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Sidewalk Assessment Program, 2013 — per Ord. 1688-12 to American International Corp. —
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 181-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Finance Department
Electronic protection services — per Ord. 447-12 to Tyco Integrated Security, LLC
(BOC Res. 175-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Landscape materials — per C.O. Sec. 181.19 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 176-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Jerome T. Osborne and Concrete,
Inc. per Ord. 1407-12, 1541-12 (BOC Res. 182-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Land Acquisition
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Jerome T. Osborne and Concrete,
Inc. per Ord. 1407-12, 1541-12 (BOC Res. 182-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

737

The City Record

44

May 1, 2013

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 115th Street, 1472 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-09-119 — Henry L. Cameron (BOC Res. 188-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3436 (Ward 1) — PPN 130-16-052 (northerly portion) — George Peterson
and Carol Peterson (BOC Res. 187-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3436 (Ward 1) — PPN 130-16-052 (southerly portion) — Lillie May Ashley
(BOC Res. 186-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 69th Street, 3413 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-31-067 — Albert and Barbara Foster (BOC Res. 191-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelton Avenue, 11520 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-10-141 (northeasterly portion) — Frederick Walker
(BOC Res. 190-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelton Avenue, 11520 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-10-141 (southeasterly portion) — Barbara J. Drew
(BOC Res. 189-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linton Avenue, 5701 (Ward 12) — PPN 131-36-010 — Denise M. Schultz, Debra A. Schultz and
Bernadette J. Schultz-Meadows (BOC Res. 194-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 149th Street, 4484 (Ward 18) — PPN 023-15-057 — Andrea Hess (BOC Res. 192-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 61st Street, 3160 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-08-087 — lease — Maggie’s Farm, LLC — rejected
(BOC Res. 184-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 61st Street, 3274 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-07-007 — Edward Hulesch (BOC Res. 193-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3478 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-15-139 — lease — NxGen Preserve —
rejected (BOC Res. 185-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

718
717
717
718
718
718
719
719
717
719
717

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Tree planting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Big Tree, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 183-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Insurance; fire, extended, real and personal property — per Ord. 199-13 to Hylant Group —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 177-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Brainard Road 16” Express Water Main — per Ord. 1692-12 to Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 178-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Sidewalk Assessment Program, 2013 — per Ord. 1688-12 to American International Corp. —
Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 181-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
St. Clair Avenue Sewer Relining Project — per Ord. 740-12 to United Survey, Inc. —
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 179-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Brainard Road 16” Express Water Main — per Ord. 1692-12 to Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 178-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance; fire, extended, real and personal property — per Ord. 199-13 to Hylant Group —
Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 177-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SCADA repair and maintenance — per Ord. 629-11 — all bids rejected — Division of Water
Pollution Control (BOC Res. 180-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue Sewer Relining Project — per Ord. 740-12 to United Survey, Inc. —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 179-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Jerome T. Osborne and Concrete,
Inc. per Ord. 1407-12, 1541-12 (BOC Res. 182-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Tree planting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Big Tree, Inc. — Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 183-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Towpath Trail Project, Stage 3 — purchase parcels from Jerome T. Osborne and Concrete,
Inc. per Ord. 1407-12, 1541-12 (BOC Res. 182-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Electronic protection services — per Ord. 447-12 to Tyco Integrated Security, LLC — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 175-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Tree planting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Big Tree, Inc. — Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 183-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Control — Water Division
Brainard Road 16” Express Water Main — per Ord. 1692-12 to Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 178-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

738

May 1, 2013

The City Record

45

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
SCADA repair and maintenance — per Ord. 629-11 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 180-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
St. Clair Avenue Sewer Relining Project — per Ord. 740-12 to United Survey, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 179-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bessemer Avenue, 8200, (Ward 5) – Sidacko Bessemer I, LLC, owner — appeal heard on
4/29/13 (Cal. 13-55). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bradley Road, 4300, (Ward 12) – W.B. and M. Bauman and Bradley Road, Incorporated, owners —
appeal to be heard on 5/13/13 (Cal. 10-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bradley Road, 4300, (Ward 12) – W.B. and M.E Bauman and Bradley Road Incorporated, owner —
appeal to be heard on 5/13/13 (Cal. 10-194) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Avenue, 7945-8101, (Ward 12) – Bud Brady Ford, owner, and FDBTS, LLC,
prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-51). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 3682, (Ward 4) – Wilson Fisher, Jr., owner — appeal heard on 4/29/13
(Cal. 13-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 61st Street, 1260, (Ward 7) – Jimmie Richard, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/29/13 (Cal. 13-30). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford Drive, 1901, (Ward 9) – Case Western Reserve University, owner, and Glidden House
Associates Limited Partnership, lessee — appeal granted and adopted on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-52) . . .
Fulton Road, 1839, (Ward 3) – Ohio City Tremont, LLC, owner, and George Preedy — appeal
granted and adopted on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Heights Boulevard, 13933, (Ward 19) – Mac’s Convenience Stores, LLC, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Avenue, 806, (Ward 4) – Sandy Banks, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 4/29/13
(Cal. 13-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saranac Road, 16003, (Ward 11) – Joan Anger, owner — appeal postponed to 6/03/13 on
4/29/13 (Cal. 13-53). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucson Avenue, 6100, (Ward 12) – Truscon Realty, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 4/29/13
(Cal. 13-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4576-88, (Ward 18) – Lander Day Care Center, Inc., owner, and FDBTS,
LLC, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-50) . . . . . . . . . . .
West 76th Street, 1261, (Ward 15) – Gillespie Brothers Ltd., owner — appeal postponed to
6/17/13 on 4/29/13 (Cal. 13-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 723
. . . . . . . . . . . . 723
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
. . . . . . . . . . . . 724

Bonds
Bridges and Roadway Improvements Bonds — Twenty Three Million Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($23, 500,000) — Finance Department (O 580-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
James Hartley, Acting Director, Department of Finance — Notification of Intent — Issue
Airport System Revenue Bonds, SERIES 2013A (F 623-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Building and Housing Department
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community
Development Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

Burke Lakefront Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top
Lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — Lease — USS COD (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Gun —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Capital Projects
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State of Ohio (Ward 12) (O 596-13) . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
banners (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 10)
(R 251-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., — encroach into right-of-way — Installing & Maintaining Parking Area
& Sidewalk Purposes — Mike & Eddie Property Investment LLC — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (O 357-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Detroit Ave., at West 57th &
West 65th St. — April 29 to May 20 — Cleveland Orchestra At Home In Gordon Square
Event — banner (Ward 15) (O 573-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

739

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731

The City Record

46

May 1, 2013

East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 249-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward
03) (R 370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Charitable Fund — various locations — April 24 to May 20 — Annual Health Fair —
banners (Ward 07) (O 574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — permit — May 11th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 632-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State of Ohio — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Case Western Reserve University
Summer Sports, Nutrition, Health, and Life Skills Development Programs — National Youth
Sports Program (O 359-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

City of Cleveland Bids
Crane and hoist inspection and maintenance — Department of Public Utilities — Divisions
of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 1630-12 —
bid due May 17, 2013 (advertised 4/24/2013 and 5/1/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue improvements (roadway rehabilitation from Ridge Rd. to Denison Bridge) and
(underground 138Kv transmission circuit infrastructure) — Office of Capital Projects —
Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 908-12 — bid due May 16, 2013
(advertised 4/24/2013 and 5/1/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erie Street and Monroe Street Cemetery improvements — Department of Public Works —
Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 537-12 — bid due May 17,
2013 (advertised 4/24/2013 and 5/1/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance for First Energy Stadium — Department of Public Works — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due May 22, 2013 (advertised 5/1/2013 and 5/8/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint and paint supplies — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May
10, 2013 (advertised 4/24/2013 and 5/1/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pool chemicals — Department of Public Works — Division of Recreation — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due May 17, 2013 (advertised 4/24/2013 and 5/1/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, rental of large capacity with operators — Department of Public Works — Division
of Streets — per Ord. 1694-12 — bid due May 15, 2013 (advertised 4/24/2013 and 5/1/2013) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

City Planning Commission
Asiatown Cultural Center Planning Project — Promote Asian Community & Cultural Center —
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward 08 NCF) (O 630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 10) (R 251-13) . .
Clark Ave., and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use District (Ward 15) (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., — encroach into right-of-way — Installing & Maintaining Parking Area
& Sidewalk Purposes — Mike & Eddie Property Investment LLC — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 15) (O 357-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St., and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District
(Ward 11) (O 512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 07) (O 249-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 82nd St. & East 83rd St. — Change Use District (Ward 06) (O 754-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District (Ward 18) (O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District (Ward 18) (O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height Districts
(Ward 15) (O 133-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garden Valley Home Estates Revitalization Phase I — Dedication Plat — East 72nd St, East
72nd Pl., Rouse Ave., Bell Ave. — Plat Approved (Ward 05)(F 628-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(R 370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark (Ward
08) (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55 St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward
07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Innerbelt Bridge relocation and new construction -Partition & Dedication Plat — East 9th
Street Extension, Pittsburgh Ave., Commercial Road, Broadway Ave., S.E — Plat
Approved (Ward 03) (F 629-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark (Ward 08)
(O 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

740

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

726
713
726
726
726

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

May 1, 2013

The City Record

47

Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 12) (O 320-13).
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District (Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Cleveland Foundation
Jane Fumich, Director, Department of Aging — Grant (F 624-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Signage, Airfield — professional services — Federal Aviation Administration (O 433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Cleveland Metropolitan Park District
Authorize Metroparks Lease Agreement for Lakefront Parks (O 504-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 730

Cleveland Municipal Court
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract agreement changes for The Veterans Court —
Treatment Program (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section 453.01 — Parking Regulations In Parking Meter Zones — Parking Meter Zone
Regulations shall not apply on Martin Luther King Jr. Day (O 169-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 195.02 and 195.03 — Exempt Small Live Entertainment Venues from Admission
Tax (O 595-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13).
Hotel Tax — Amend Section 193.02 and 193.03 — Repeal Section 193.031 (O 597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirements for Taxicabs & Penalties — Amend various Sections of Chapter 443 — Enact new
Section 443.99 (O 598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Communications
Garden Valley Home Estates Revitalization Phase I — Dedication Plat — East 72nd St, East
72nd Pl., Rouse Ave., Bell Ave. — City Planning Commission — Plat Approved
(Ward 05)(F 628-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Innerbelt Bridge relocation and new construction -Partition & Dedication Plat — East 9th
Street Extension, Pittsburgh Ave., Commercial Road, Broadway Ave., S.E — City
Planning Commission — Plat Approved (Ward 03) (F 629-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
James Hartley, Acting Director, Department of Finance — Notification of Intent — Issue
Airport System Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A (F 623-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Community Development
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG and Home Funds — Community Development
Department (O 605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community
Development Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and amend contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD —
Community Development Department — Cuyahoga County — CMHA — GCRTA —
NEORSD (O 606-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garden Program — non-profit agencies (O 603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, and Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Aging Department — Community Development
Department (O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

741

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

The City Record

48

May 1, 2013

Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG and Home Funds — Community Development
Department (O 605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community
Development Department (O 602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and amend contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD —
Community Development Department — Cuyahoga County — CMHA — GCRTA —
NEORSD (O 606-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 604-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garden Program — non-profit agencies (O 603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community Development
Department — Public Works Department (O 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP), Chore, and Homeless Services Programs —
Expend CDBG Funds — Aging Department — Community Development
Department (O 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Condolences
Higgins, Ruth Ann (R 638-13)
Moltz, Douglas F. (R 641-13) . .
Morrison, Jr., John (R 639-13) .
Starkey, Willie (R 637-13) . . . .
Sullivan, Lula Mae (R 636-13) .
Womack, Helen L. (R 640-13) .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

698
698
698
697
697
698

......................
......................
......................
Anniversary (R 643-13) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

698
698
698
698

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations
Flowers, Sandra Lee (R 645-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Greg (R 644-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pocek, Mayor Daniel S. (R 642-13) . . . . . . . . .
Zion Evangelical Lutheran Church — 170th

Contracts
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Agreement changes for the Veterans Court — Treatment
Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 237-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 12)
(O 596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I — public improvement —
professional services — CHIA (O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Service Work — City Year (O 430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services Cobra and HIPAA Program Administration — Human Resources
Department (O 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services for Assistance Program Administration — Human Resources Department
(O 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Amend Contract No. 35112 with Eliza Bryant Village — Discount
prepayments of its UDAG Loan — Addison Rd., 1380 (Ward 07) (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
Lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. — Provide
Technical Training and Development for Employees (O 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with Big Wireless, LLC — Provide
Technical Support and Preventive Maintenance for Wireless Equipment (O 611-13). . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football Program — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 245-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
LEADSONLINE LLC — professional service — On-Line Automated Scrap Materials and used
good transaction Information Management System (O 571-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — professional services — Provide Construction Management and Administrative
Services — various divisions (O 432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — professional services — Recommend Strategic and Operational Improvements
leading to cost savings for Operational Efficiency (O 367-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

742

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729

May 1, 2013

The City Record

49

Summer Sports, Nutrition, Health, and Life Skills Development Programs — National Youth
Sports Program — Case Western Reserve University (O 359-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State of Ohio — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — Utilities
Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Economic Development Department
Amend Contract No. 35112 — Eliza Bryant Village — Discount Prepayments of its UDAG Loan —
Addison Rd., 1380 (Ward 07) (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Grant Agreement — Revenue Assistance Corporation — Economic Development assistance
to relocate 4780 Hinckley Parkway (O 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

Encroachments
Denison Ave., — right-of-way — Installing & Maintaining Parking Area & Sidewalk Purposes —
Mike & Eddie Property Investment LLC — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 357-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Economic Development Department (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract agreement changes for The Veterans Court —
Treatment Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridges and Roadway Improvements Bonds — Twenty Three Million Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($23, 500,000) (O 580-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hotel Tax — Amend Section 193.02 and 193.03 — Repeal Section 193.031 (O 597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
James Hartley, Acting Director, Department Of Finance — Notification of Intent — Issue
Airport System Revenue Bonds, SERIES 2013A (F 623-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and Wage Schedules — Sections 36, 38, and 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Human
Resources Department (O 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Grants
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract agreement changes for The Veterans Court —
Treatment Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — various agencies — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
Health Department (O 599-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — agreement — Revenue Assistance Corporation — Economic
Development assistance to relocate 4780 Hinckley Parkway (O 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jane Fumich, Director, Department of Aging — Cleveland Foundation (F 624-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund Grant, 2012 — Ohio Office Of Criminal Justice —
Safety Department (O 600-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

Health Department
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — Grant — various agencies — Cuyahoga County Board
Of Health (O 599-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Mayor to Execute a Release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavillion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Human Resources Department
Background and Criminal Checks, Pre-Employment (O 618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services COBRA and HIPAA Program Administration (O 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services for Assistance Program Administration (O 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and Wage Schedules — Sections 36, 38, and 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Finance
Department (O 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Landmark Commission
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 316-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 319-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 505-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

743

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

The City Record

50

May 1, 2013

Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 506-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Lease Agreement
Authorize Metroparks Lease Agreement for Lakefront Parks (O 504-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 730
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
And Owens & Minor (O 496-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Terminate State Lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729

Lease By Way Of Concession
Mayor to Execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavillion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Leases
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Parking Lot 9 — USS COD — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Liquor Permits
Clark Ave., 3226 — objection to issuance (Ward 14) (R 621-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corlett Ave., 12401 — objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 633-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st St., 4127 — liquor agency contract (Ward 02) (F 627-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 135th St., 3218 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 04) (F 625-13) . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3400 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 08) (R 622-13)
West 10th St., 1091 — new application (Ward 03) (F 626-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

712
712
697
697
712
697

Loans
Economic Development — Amend Contract No. 35112 with Eliza Bryant Village — Discount
prepayments of its UDAG Loan — Addison Rd., 1380 (Ward 07) (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Mayor’s Office
Gender-Neutral Language in Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Mayor to Execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavillion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Ohio Department Of Natural Resources
Terminate State Lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects
(Ward 12) (O 596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State of Ohio — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Parking
Amend Section 453.01 — Parking Regulations In Parking Meter Zones — Parking Meter Zone
Regulations shall not apply on Martin Luther King Jr. Day (O 169-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727

Parking Meters
Amend Section 453.01 — Parking Regulations In Parking Meter Zones — Parking Meter Zone
Regulations shall not apply on Martin Luther King Jr. Day (O 169-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727

Permits
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
banners — Capital Projects (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

744

May 1, 2013

The City Record

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Detroit Ave. at West 57th & West
65th St. — April 29 to May 20 — Cleveland Orchestra At Home In Gordon Square Event —
banner — Capital Projects (Ward 15) (O 573-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Charitable Fund — various locations — April 24 to May 20 — Annual Health Fair —
banners — Capital Projects (Ward 07) (O 574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s) 03, 07,
08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — May 11th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland (O 632-13).

51

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711

Plats
Garden Valley Home Estates Revitalization Phase I — Dedication Plat — East 72nd St, East
72nd Pl., Rouse Ave., Bell Ave. — City Planning Commission — Plat Approved
(Ward 05)(F 628-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Innerbelt Bridge relocation and new construction -Partition & Dedication Plat — East 9th
Street Extension, Pittsburgh Ave., Commercial Road, Broadway Ave., S.E — City
Planning Commission — Plat Approved (Ward 03) (F 629-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Police Division
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Port Control Department
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I — public improvement contract —
professional services — CHIA (O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
Lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. Ps 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. — Provide
Technical Training and Development for Employees (O 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — Lease — USS COD — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — contracts — Provide Construction Management and Administrative
Services — various divisions (O 432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Signage, Airfield — professional services — CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration (O 433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 713
. . 714
. . 704

. . 714
. . 714
. . 714
. . 714

Predatory Lending
Anti-Predatory Lending and Foreclosure Prevention Assistance — Expend CDBG and Federal
Home Funds — contracts with various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

Professional Services
Background and Criminal Checks, Pre-Employment — Human Resources Department (O 618-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I — public improvement contract — CHIA
(O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services COBRA and HIPAA Program Administration — Human Resources
Department (O 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting Services for Assistance Program Administration — Human Resources Department
(O 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-308 with Adacel Systems Inc. — Provide
Technical Training and Development for Employees (O 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with Big Wireless, LLC — Provide
Technical Support and Preventive Maintenance for Wireless Equipment (O 611-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise Option To Renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
LEADSONLINE LLC — contracts — On-Line Automated Scrap Materials and used good
transaction Information Management System (O 571-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — contracts — Provide Construction Management and Administrative Services —
various divisions (O 432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Recommend Strategic and Operational Improvements leading to cost savings
for Operational Efficiency (O 367-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Signage, Airfield — CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration (O 433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — various divisions — Integrated Resources Plan (O 617-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. 707
. 713
. 708
. 707
. 704
. 704

. 714
. 731
. 714
. 729
. 714
. 707

Public Hearing (Notices)
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1559-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

745

The City Record

52

May 1, 2013

East 82nd St. & East 83rd St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 754-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. At W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 18)
(O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 505-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55 St. & E. 75TH ST.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 506-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

Public Improvements
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I — contract — professional services —
CHIA (O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — contract — Utilities Department — WPC
Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — contract — Utilities Department — WPC
Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — contract — Utilities Department —
WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Public Works
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorize Metroparks Lease Agreement for Lakefront Parks (O 504-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Service Work — City Year (O 430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational, Recreational and Cultural Programs — School Buildings and Recreation Centers —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — Summer Tennis Program (O 246-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football Program — contract — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 245-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — Recommend Strategic and Operational Improvements leading to cost
savings for Operational Efficiency (O 367-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Community Development
Department (O 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Sports, Nutrition, Health, and Life Skills Development Programs — National Youth
Sports Program — Case Western Reserve University (O 359-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminate State Lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 714
. . 730
. . 729
. . 728
. . 728
. . 729
. . 703
. . 713
. . 729

Purchases And Supplies Division
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Races
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — permit — May 11th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 632-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711

Resolution of Support
Establish Green Building Practices for All City Facilities (R 372-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Establish Green Building Practices for All City Facilities (R 372-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Safety Department
LEADSONLINE LLC — professional service — contracts — On-Line Automated Scrap Materials
and used good transaction Information Management System (O 571-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund Grant, 2012 — Grant — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
(O 600-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

Salaries
Salary and Wage Schedules — Sections 36, 38, and 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

746

May 1, 2013

The City Record

53

Sewers
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

State of Ohio
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — Capital Projects (Ward 12) (O 596-13) .
Mayor to Execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavillion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminate State Lease for Lakefront Parks (O 503-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — Capital Projects (Ward 15)
(O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Street Vacation
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10) (R 251-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (Ward 07)
(O 249-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission(Ward 03) (R 370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Tax Abatement
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Economic Development
Department (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Taxes
Amend Sections 195.02 and 195.03 — Exempt Small Live Entertainment Venues from Admission
Tax (O 595-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Hotel Tax — Amend Section 193.02 and 193.03 — repeal Section 193.031 (O 597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Taxicabs
Requirements for Taxicabs & Penalties — Amend various Sections of Chapter 443 — Enact new
Section 443.99 (O 598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Traffic Code
Amend Section 453.01 — Parking Regulations In Parking Meter Zones — Parking Meter Zone
Regulations shall not apply on Martin Luther King Jr. Day (O 169-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727

Utilities Department
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — WPC
Division (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-200 with Big Wireless, LLC — Provide
Technical Support and Preventive Maintenance for Wireless Equipment (O 611-13). . . . . .
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — WPC
Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Divisions — professional services — Integrated Resources Plan (O 617-13) . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract — WPC
Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Ward 01
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Higgins, Ruth Ann — Condolence (R 638-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morrison, Jr., John — Condolence (R 639-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Womack, Helen L. — Condolence (R 640-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

706
698
698
698

Ward 02
Corlett Ave., 12401 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 633-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
East 131st St., 4127 — liquor agency contract — liquor permit (F 627-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Sullivan, Lula Mae — Condolence (R 636-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

747

The City Record

54

May 1, 2013

Ward 03
Amend Section 453.01 — Parking Regulations In Parking Meter Zones — Parking Meter Zone
Regulations Shall Not Apply On Martin Luther King Jr. Day (O 169-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Innerbelt Bridge relocation and new construction -Partition & Dedication Plat — East 9th
Street Extension, Pittsburgh Ave., Commercial Road, Broadway Ave., S.E — City
Planning Commission — Plat Approved (F 629-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — permit — May 11th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 632-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th St., 1091 — new application — liquor permit (F 626-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Ward 04
East 135th St., 3218 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 625-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Flowers, Sandra Lee — Congratulations (R 645-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Ward 05
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
banners — Capital Projects (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Garden Valley Home Estates Revitalization Phase I — Dedication Plat — East 72nd St, East
72nd Pl., Rouse Ave., Bell Ave. — City Planning Commission — Plat Approved
(F 628-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Zion Evangelical Lutheran Church — 170th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 643-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Ward 06
East 82nd St. & East 83rd St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 754-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

Ward 07
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (O 249-13). .
Economic Development — Amend Contract No. 35112with Eliza Bryant Village — Discount
Prepayments of its UDAG Loan — Addison Rd., 1380 (O 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55 St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Charitable Fund — various locations — April 24 to May 20 — Annual Health Fair —
banners — Capital Projects (O 574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starkey, Willie — Condolence (R 637-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Ward 08
Asiatown Cultural Center Planning Project — Promote Asian Community & Cultural Center —
City Planning Commission — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward 08 NCF)
(O 630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 196-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3400 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 622-13) . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

Ward 09
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

748

May 1, 2013

The City Record

55

Ward 10
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (R 251-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Ward 11
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 713

Ward 12
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects (O 596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 320-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
Spring Rd., 1805 — change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 3226 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 621-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712

Ward 15
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., — encroach into right-of-way — Installing & Maintaining Parking Area
& Sidewalk Purposes — Mike & Eddie Property Investment LLC — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (O 357-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Detroit Ave. at West 57th & West
65th St. — April 29 to May 20 — Cleveland Orchestra At Home In Gordon Square Event —
banner — Capital Projects (O 573-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Green Building Practices for all City Facilities (R 372-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 133-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pocek, Mayor Daniel S. — Congratulations (R 642-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State of Ohio — Capital
Projects (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715

Ward 16
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 25-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moltz, Douglas F. — Condolence (R 641-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(Ward(s) 03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Ward 17
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Ward 18
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Johnson, Greg — Congratulations (R 644-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — WPC Division (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
East 149th Street Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department (Ward 01) (O 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Milligan Avenue Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — (O 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
West Boulevard Area Sewer Replacement Project — public improvement — contract —
Utilities Department — (Ward(s) 16, 17) (O 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

749

The City Record

56

May 1, 2013

Zoning
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1559-12). . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 82nd St. & East 83rd St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 754-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 18)
(O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 133-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55 St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 320-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

750

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 715
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

