The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings

3
12
12
13
17

21
25

Index

25

18
20
20
21

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5171

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Reed.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Mitchell.

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 14, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, Martin J. Sweeney, Jay Westbrook and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief of Government Affairs
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief
of Education Monyka S. Price, Chief
of Sustainability Jenita McGowan,
and Directors Langhenry, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Wasik, Flask, Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich, and
Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

43

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 70-13.
From Detroit Shoreway Community
Development
Organization
—
Notification of plans to be the general partner and to utilize OHFA
low income housing tax credit program for development of Aspen
Place. Received.
File No. 71-13.
From Detroit Shoreway Community
Development
Organization
—
Notification of plans to be the general partner and to utilize OHFA
low income housing tax credit program for development of TemplinBradley Co. Lofts. Received.
File No. 72-13.
From Detroit Shoreway Community
Development
Organization
—
Notification of plans to be the general partner and to utilize OHFA
low income housing tax credit program for development of Historic
Detroit
Avenue
Apartments.
Received.
File No. 87-13.
From Michael Cox, Director of
Department of Public Works —
Notification of acceptance of Cuyahoga County 2012 Community Recycling Grant. Received.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 73-13.
John Ludrosky — Sergeant
Division of Police. Received.

of

File No. 74-13.
Robert Strollo — Sergeant of Division of Police. Received.
File No. 75-13.
Jason Steckle — Sergeant of Division of Police. Received.
File No. 76-13.
Magdaelena Crespo — Sergeant of
Division of Police. Received.
File No. 77-13.
Elbert Eggelmeyer — Sergeant of
Division of Police. Received.
File No. 78-13.
William Mokshefsky — Sergeant
of Division of Police. Received.
File No. 79-13.
Erik G. Burchak, II — Lieutenant
of Division of Fire. Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 80-13.
Ronald A. Vargo, Jr. — Captain of
Division of Fire. Received.

Res. No. 107-13—Jack Kilbane.
Res. No. 108-13—Maxine Lobins.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

File No. 81-13.
Bryan J. Zywiec — Lieutenant of
Division of Fire. Received.
File No. 82-13.
Navid Hussain — Commissioner of
Division of Construction Permitting,
Department of Building and Housing. Received.
File No. 83-13.
Randell T. Scott — Interim Commissioner of Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Works. Received.
File No. 84-13.
Antionette Thompson — Interim
Commissioner of Division of Parking Facilities, Department of Public
Works. Received.
File No. 85-13.
Samuel Gissentaner — Interim
Commissioner of Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works.
Received.
File No. 86-13.
Kim R. Johnson — Interim Assistant Director of Department of Public Works. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 88-13.
RE: #1476123 — D5J D6 New
License Application — Cibreo LLC,
1438
Euclid
Ave.
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 89-13.
RE: #0435551 — D5 Transfer of
License Application, Bar One II
LLC, 1938 Euclid Ave. (Ward 8).
Received.
File No. 90-13.
RE: #5339250 — C1 C2 Transfer of
Ownership
Application,
Lucky
Times LLC, 15504 Waterloo Rd.
(Ward 11). Received.
File No. 91-13.
RE: 3174612 — C1 C2 D6 Stock
Ownership
Application,
Ghazawi
Inc., 4475 Pearl Rd. (Ward 13).
Received.
File No. 92-13.
RE: 8633438 — D5 D6 Stock Ownership Application, Strang Corp, 8905
Lake Ave. (Ward 16). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 93-13—Katherine Philipp
Geis.
Res. No. 94-13—Arnold Cousins, Jr.
Res. No. 95-13—Shirley Ann Long.
Res. No. 96-13—Ada Pearl Wilcox.
Res. No. 97-13—Deacon Roosevelt
C. Woods.
Res.
No.
98-13—Anita
Paulette
Cummings.
Res. No. 99-13—Ralph Howard.
Res. No. 100-13—Elaine Frances
Shuckahosee.
Res.
No.
101-13—Roy
“Dutch”
Harley.
Res. No. 102-13—Dr. Wanda Jean
Green.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 103-13—Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority – 80th
Anniversary.
Res. No. 104-13—Reverend Ian F.
Cox.
Res. No. 105-13—Chief Greg Loftus.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 106-13—Kathleen Adams.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 64-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing refunding and remarketing of
Airport System Revenue Bonds;
authorizing Supplemental Indentures
and other agreements related to the
bonds; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, under authority of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio and
the Charter of the City, this Council
has by ordinance authorized the
issuance of Revenue Bonds, from time
to time, for the Airport System under
the terms and security of the Amended and Restated Trust Indenture
(Seventeenth Supplemental Trust
Indenture), effective as of January
31, 2012 (the “Trust Indenture”),
between the City and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”); and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of Airport System Revenue
Refunding
Bonds
(“Refunding
Bonds”) under the Trust Indenture
for the purpose of refunding Outstanding Revenue Bonds, as defined
and provided in this Ordinance, or,
alternatively in the case of Outstanding Revenue Bonds bearing interest
at variable rates, the interest rate
mode conversion or change in Credit
Support Instrument and remarketing
of Outstanding Revenue Bonds, in
either case to obtain debt service savings, or to stabilize interest rates or
minimize risks of increased interest
expense on Outstanding Revenue
Bonds that bear interest at variable
rates, or to eliminate or modify
covenants that are unduly restrictive,
or to obtain a more favorable debt service structure; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department and providing
for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that authorizing the refunding
and other actions with respect to Outstanding Revenue Bonds is necessary
to enable the City to respond to market conditions on a timely basis for
the benefit of the Airport System;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and terms
defined in the Trust Indenture, the
following words and terms shall have

44

January 16, 2013
the following meanings, unless the
context or use indicates a contrary
meaning or intention.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
with respect to the Refunding Bonds,
one or more Bond Purchase Agreements between the City and the Original Purchasers authorized in Section
5 of this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means one or
more certificates delivered by the
Director of Finance pursuant to Section 5 of this Ordinance providing for
the final terms of the Refunding
Bonds of any series consistent with
the requirements of the Trust Indenture and this Ordinance.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, including,
when appropriate, the statutory predecessor of the Code and all applicable Treasury regulations.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Revenue Bonds or any Hedge
Agreements.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record beneficial ownership of Revenue Bonds or Bond service charges,
and to effect transfers of Revenue
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Direct Payment” means a credit
allowed under the Code with respect
to obligations that is payable to the
City by the U.S. Treasury.
“Direct
Payment
Obligations”
means obligations the interest on
which is includible in gross income
for federal income tax purposes and
with respect to which the City shall
have made an irrevocable election to
receive a Direct Payment.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, in connection with the Revenue Bonds or any
Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each series of Refunding
Bonds, the financial institutions identified in the Certificate of Award for
that series.
“Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds”
means Revenue Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Trust Indenture, including without
limitation any Refunding Bonds
issued pursuant to this Ordinance. On
the date of introduction of this Ordinance, the Outstanding Revenue
Bonds (and the respective principal
amounts then currently outstanding)
consisted of the following series of
Airport System Revenue Bonds:
Series 2000C ($149,000,000), Series
2006A ($107,750,000), Series 2006B
($5,965,000), Series 2007B ($9,095,000),
Series 2008D ($5,975,000), Series 2008F
($58,000,000), Series 2009A ($24,365,000),
Series 2009B ($10,240,000), Series 2009C
($131,725,000), Series 2009D ($38,875,000),
Series 2011A ($71,505,000) and Series
2012A ($235,150,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those Outstanding Revenue Bonds identified in
a Certificate of Award to be refunded
from proceeds of Refunding Bonds.

January 16, 2013
“Refunding Bonds” means the Airport System Revenue Refunding
Bonds authorized by this Ordinance
to be issued as Additional Revenue
Bonds under the Trust Indenture for
the purpose of refunding one or more
series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds,
or designated maturities thereof.
“Remarketing Agent” means a
financial institution performing the
duties of a remarketing agent under a
Supplemental Indenture for variable
rate Revenue Bonds.
“Revenue Bonds” means Outstanding Revenue Bonds and any Additional Revenue Bonds issued under the
Trust Indenture.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
each Supplemental Trust Indenture
delivered to supplement the Trust
Indenture, to further provide for the
terms and security of one or more
series of Revenue Bonds or to amend
the Trust Indenture.
“Taxable
Bonds”
means
any
Refunding Bonds the interest on
which is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes.
“Tax-Exempt Bonds” means Revenue Bonds bearing interest excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes.
Section 2. Authorization of the
Refunding Bonds.
This Council authorizes the City to
issue the Refunding Bonds in one or
more Series for the purpose of refunding one or more Series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds, or designated portions thereof, to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings of
at least three percent (3%), or to eliminate or modify covenants that are
unduly restrictive, or to obtain a more
favorable debt service structure or
more favorable terms under Credit
Support Instruments. With respect to
Outstanding Revenue Bonds that are
short-term or variable-rate obligations, this Council authorizes the City
to issue Refunding Bonds to refund
such Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or
designated portions thereof, for any
of the foregoing purposes or for the
purpose that the Director of Finance
has determined, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
such Outstanding Revenue Bonds are
subjecting the City to undesirably
high rates of interest or undesirable
fluctuations in rates of interest or
risks or expenses associated with
Credit Support Instruments or Hedge
Agreements that can economically be
avoided or mitigated through refunding. The principal amount of each
Series of Refunding Bonds is to be the
amount set forth in the Certificate of
Award authorized in Section 5 and
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be necessary (i) to refund the Refunded Bonds
to be refunded by that Series, (ii) to
fund any interest on the Refunding
Bonds, (iii) to fund any deposit to the
Bond Service Reserve Fund required
under the Trust Indenture or any special reserve fund for that Series separate from the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, (iv) to fund any deposit to the
Renewal and Replacement Fund
required under the Trust Indenture,
(v) to pay costs of any Credit Support
Instruments, (vi) to pay any amounts
owed under Hedge Agreements, and
(vii) to pay costs of issuing the
Refunding Bonds and refunding the
Refunded Bonds.
Separate series of Refunding Bonds
may be issued at the same or different
times. The Refunding Bonds of each
series shall be designated as provided
in the applicable Certificate of
Award. A separate Certificate of

The City Record
Award and a separate Supplemental
Indenture may be delivered for each
series. The proceeds from the sale of
each Series of Refunding Bonds shall
be allocated, deposited and applied as
provided in Section 6. The Refunding
Bonds shall constitute Revenue
Bonds for all purposes of the Trust
Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds for a purpose provided in this
Ordinance serves a proper, public,
municipal purpose by reducing or stabilizing costs of air travel facilities
serving the people of the City of
Cleveland, thereby increasing and
promoting commerce by providing
necessary transportation for individuals and commercial enterprises purchasing and selling services and
products in northeastern Ohio, and
creating and preserving jobs and
employment opportunities in the City
and improving the economic welfare
of the City.
Section 3. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging in interest rate hedging arrangements with respect to Revenue Bonds
the City may reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and variable rate
obligations, or minimizing the risk of
variations in its debt service costs, or
obtaining savings by confirming
rates of interest on Revenue Bonds in
advance of their issuance. To permit
the City to have the flexibility to
undertake interest rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate collar and other
hedging transactions, from time to
time, and to establish the procedures
for approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements
(each, a “Hedge Agreement”) and any
related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section 3 are supplemental to and not in
derogation of any authority provided
by any other ordinance of this Council
concerning hedging arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to any Revenue Bonds issued or to be
issued under the Trust Indenture, the
Director of Finance may authorize
one or more interest rate hedge transactions in accordance with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that
the term of each hedge transaction
shall not exceed the final maturity of
the Revenue Bonds to which the
hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement. The City shall receive a written
opinion of a Financial Advisor that
the payments made or to be made by
the counterparty to the City, or by the
City to the counterparty, shall be fair
value for the Hedge Agreement, considering, among other things, the
credit of the City’s Airport System,
the credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the time or
times and procedures for the exercise
by the counterparty or the City, as the
case may be, of any option under the
Hedge Agreement, whether the obligations of the City under the Hedge
Agreement shall be secured by a Cred-

45

5
it Support Instrument, and the rates
to be paid by the counterparty to the
City and by the City to the counterparty under the Hedge Agreement in
the event of the exercise of the option.
The approval of each interest rate
hedge transaction by the Director of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of
the applicable Hedge Agreement by
the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into an amendment,
modification or novation of any
Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement or to terminate any Hedge
Agreement, in whole or in part, if the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that (a) the
amendment, modification, novation or
termination is (i) justified by the corresponding benefit to the City, (ii)
commercially reasonable based on
then-current market conditions, and
(iii) in the City’s best interests, and
(b) any payments made or to be made
by the counterparty to the City, or by
the City to the counterparty, are fair
value for such amendment, modification, novation or termination, given
the credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the amendment, modification, novation or termination. To the extent that any
amounts to be paid by the City in connection with any such amendment,
modification, novation or termination
are not paid from proceeds of Revenue Bonds, those amounts shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106 and 60 SF 141
and/or passenger facility charges, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance after consultation with the
Director of Port Control.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Airport Revenues as defined
in the Trust Indenture and may be
payable also from other funds permitted by law to be used for the purpose,
as identified by the Director of
Finance in the Hedge Agreement.
Those payments may be secured by a
pledge of Airport Revenues, to the
extent permitted by the Trust Indenture, all as determined by the Director
of Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the City
to make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City or the State of Ohio. Nothing
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
In the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that it
is necessary to supplement or amend
the Trust Indenture or a Supplemental Indenture in connection with any
Hedge Agreement or any amendment,
modification, novation or termination
of any Hedge Agreement, the Mayor
and the Director of Finance are authorized to sign and deliver a Supplemental Indenture or amendment of an
existing Supplemental Indenture.
Section 4. Terms of Refunding
Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall contain
the terms provided in or determined
pursuant to, the Trust Indenture, this
Ordinance, the applicable Certificate
of Award and the applicable Supplemental Indenture. Each series of
Refunding Bonds may be secured by a

6
separate Supplemental Indenture, or
a single Supplemental Indenture may
secure more than one series of
Refunding Bonds.
(a) General. The Refunding Bonds
may be issued as obligations bearing
interest at fixed or variable interest
rates. In the event that the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by a series of Refunding
Bonds bearing interest at variable
interest rates, then provision shall be
made in the Supplemental Indenture
applicable to that series for the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the Refunding Bonds of that series
shall be determined (whether by reference to a market index, by a remarketing agent or otherwise); provided
that no series of variable rate Refunding Bonds shall bear interest at a rate
in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year (including any
Refunding Bonds held by a provider
of a Credit Support Instrument). The
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of a variable rate
series of Refunding Bonds may or
may not permit the holders to tender
their variable rate Refunding Bonds
for purchase by the City. If the Director of Finance designates any series
of Refunding Bonds as variable rate
Refunding Bonds, and if the Holders
of that series of Refunding Bonds are
to be entitled to tender those Refunding Bonds for purchase, then the
Director of Finance shall also designate for those variable rate Refunding Bonds (and may designate others,
from time to time, in substitution
therefor), the tender agent or agents
(which may be the Trustee) and the
remarketing agent or agents (which
may be any of the Original Purchasers), which designations shall be
based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed to
provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into agreements with
others in connection with the delivery
of the Refunding Bonds, and from
time to time thereafter so long as the
Refunding Bonds are outstanding, as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for (i) the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, (ii) the rights and procedures
for tender, (iii) liquidity or credit support, (iv) repayment by the City of
any amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument, (v) the direct
purchase of tendered Refunding
Bonds, and (vi) other arrangements
in the best interests of the City. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to terminate any such agreements if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such termination. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to enter
into agreements, from time to time so
long as the variable rate Refunding
Bonds are outstanding, supplementing or amending the applicable Supplemental Indenture for a series of
Refunding Bonds as provided in Section 8. To the extent that any fees and
expenses associated with agreements
entered into or terminated pursuant
to this Section are not paid from pro-

The City Record
ceeds of Revenue Bonds, those fees
and expenses shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60
SF 106 and 60 SF 141 and/or passenger facility charges, as determined by
the Director of Finance after consultation with the Director of Port Control.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in fully registered form. The Refunding Bonds initially shall be delivered
only in book-entry form, shall be registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of the
Depository, and shall not be transferable or exchangeable (except for
transfer to another Depository or its
nominee) without further action by
the City pursuant to the provisions of
the Trust Indenture.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Refunding Bonds of any series for use
in a book entry system, the Director of
Finance and the Trustee may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance and the
Trustee do not or are unable to do so,
the Director of Finance and the
Trustee, after making provision for
notification of the beneficial owners
by the then Depository and any other
arrangements deemed necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the
Refunding Bonds of any series from
the Depository, and authenticate and
deliver registered Bond certificates to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of action or
inaction of the City, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into any agreements
determined by the Director to be necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Refunding
Bonds, after determining that those
agreements will not endanger the
funds or securities of the City under
the Indenture (as evidenced by the
Director’s signing of those agreements).
(c) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds of each series shall
be dated as of the date or dates provided in the Certificate of Award for
that series. The Refunding Bonds of
each series shall be issued in the
denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture for that series.
(d) Interest and Place of Payment.
The Refunding Bonds of each series
shall bear interest at their respective
interest rates specified in the Certificate of Award (or, in the case of variable rate Refunding Bonds, determined pursuant to the Supplemental
Indenture) for that series. Refunding
Bonds of the same series and same
maturity may bear interest at different interest rates. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall bear interest from the most recent date to which
interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid
or duly provided for, from their date.
The principal and any redemption
premium and the interest payable on
each series of Refunding Bonds shall
be payable at the times, to the persons
and in the manner set forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental Indenture, including, without limitation,
provisions thereof permitting special
arrangements for payments to the
Depository.
(e) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall mature on
the dates and in the respective princi-

46

January 16, 2013
pal amounts provided in the Certificate of Award, consistent with this
Ordinance and the Trust Indenture.
(f) Prior Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of each series may be subject to redemption prior to maturity at
the option of the City, if and to the
extent so provided in the Certificate
of Award for that series. Any Refunding Bonds so determined to be subject
to optional redemption and maturing
by their stated terms after the earliest
optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the
City on or after the earliest optional
redemption date in whole or in part on
any date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate of Award and
in accordance with the applicable
Supplemental Indenture and the
Trust Indenture. The Refunding
Bonds may be subject to mandatory
redemption prior to maturity on the
dates, or upon the occurrence of
events, and at the redemption prices
as determined and provided in the
Certificate of Award and applicable
Supplemental Indenture, including
without limitation, mandatory sinking fund redemption of term bonds on
each mandatory redemption date in
the aggregate amount of the sinking
fund installment to be paid on such
mandatory redemption date.
(g) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series may be subject to purchase by
the City in lieu of optional redemption
if and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award and the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
(h) Signing. The Refunding Bonds
shall be signed by the Mayor and the
Director of Finance, and approved as
to form by the Director of Law. Any or
all of the signatures of those officials
may be facsimiles. The Refunding
Bonds shall bear the corporate seal of
the City or a facsimile thereof.
(i) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. Award and Sale of
Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver a Certificate of Award for
the Refunding Bonds. In the event the
Refunding Bonds are issued in more
than one series sold at different
times, a separate Certificate of Award
shall be signed and delivered for each
separately delivered series. The sale
of the Refunding Bonds shall be
awarded to the Original Purchasers
selected by the Director of Finance,
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Refunding Bonds, and
shall be identified in the Certificate
of Award. Each Certificate of Award
shall determine the following, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance and the Trust Indenture:
(a) the aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Bonds issued;
(b) the purchase price to be paid to
the City by those Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount determined by adding to the aggregate
principal amount of the Refunding
Bonds any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount any aggregate original issue
discount, plus (ii) any accrued interest on the Refunding Bonds from
their date to the date of their delivery
to the Original Purchasers;
(c) whether the Refunding Bonds
are to be Tax-Exempt Bonds or Taxable Bonds and, if the Refunding
Bonds are Taxable Bonds, whether or
not they are Direct Payment Obligations;

January 16, 2013
(d) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be subject to redemption prior
to maturity, and, if so, the redemption
date or the event causing the prior
redemption for those Refunding
Bonds subject to prior redemption and
the redemption price, which may be
determined as a percentage of the
principal amount redeemed or by a
formula intended to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment resulting from the early redemption or by other methodology;
(e) the dates on which principal of
the Refunding Bonds is to be paid,
which shall be not later than thirty
(30) years from their respective dates
of issuance, with an identification of
whether the payment is due by stated
maturity or by mandatory sinking
fund redemption of Refunding Bonds
of a particular maturity;
(f) the interest rates to be borne by
Refunding Bonds bearing interest at
a fixed rate, the weighted average of
which shall not exceed six percent
(6%) as to Refunding Bonds of any
series that are Tax-Exempt Bonds, or
eight percent (8%) as to Refunding
Bonds of any Series that are Taxable
Bonds, or the method by which the
interest rate is to be determined for
Refunding Bonds bearing interest at
variable rates, consistent with Section 4;
(g) the particular Outstanding Revenue Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(h) the title and series designation
for the Refunding Bonds;
(i) the amount, if any, and source of
any money to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal the
Required Bond Service Reserve, if
and to the extent required by the
applicable Supplemental Indenture,
and any determination as to whether
there shall be a special reserve fund
for the Refunding Bonds of any
series, separate from the common
Bond Service Reserve Fund, or a surety or insurance policy, bank letter or
line of credit, or other form of credit
or Credit Facility enhancing the security for Refunding Bonds of that
series in lieu of a funded reserve fund;
(j) the amount, if any, and source of
any money to be deposited in the
Renewal and Replacement Fund in
order to cause the balance therein to
equal the Renewal and Replacement
Fund Requirement;
(k) the Paying Agent; and
(l) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from a
Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set forth
in this Ordinance and as so specified
and set forth in the Certificate of
Award will be in the best interest of
the City and consistent with all legal
requirements.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more Bond Purchase
Agreements with the Original Purchasers of Refunding Bonds setting
forth the conditions for delivery of
the Refunding Bonds that are consistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, and the Trust Indenture and that are determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
to be customary for airport revenue
bonds issued by governmental entities, including, without limitation,
representations as to the accuracy
and completeness of information contained in the Official Statement of the
City described in Section 13.

The City Record
Section 6.  Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds shall be applied as
provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(i) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instrument, the
fees and expenses required to be paid
by the City to obtain the Credit Support Instrument;
(ii) to the Bond Service Fund, any
proceeds constituting accrued interest and, unless other provision is
made in the Supplemental Indenture,
any proceeds to be used to pay interest on the Refunding Bonds;
(iii) to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, any proceeds to be deposited in
that Fund in order to cause the balance therein to equal the Required
Bond Service Reserve, subject to the
provisions set forth in Section 5 (i) of
this Ordinance for a lesser or special
deposit;
(iv) to the Renewal and Replacement Fund, any proceeds to be
deposited in that Fund to cause the
balance therein to equal the Renewal
and Replacement Fund Requirement;
(v) to an escrow fund established
with the Trustee, any proceeds to be
deposited in escrow to pay the principal of and any premium and interest
on the Refunded Bonds;
(vi) to the counterparty under any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds, including
any termination payment in the event
that the Director of Finance determines it is in the best interests of the
City to terminate a Hedge Agreement
relating to Outstanding Revenue
Bonds; and
(vii) to the Costs of Issuance Fund,
to be created under the applicable
Supplemental
Indenture,
such
amounts as are needed to pay costs of
issuing the Refunding Bonds and
refunding the Refunded Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose for
which those Refunding Bonds are
issued as provided in this Ordinance.
Section 7.  Refunding of Outstanding Revenue Bonds; Escrow Agreements.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, one or more
escrow agreements between the City
and the Trustee, as escrow trustee,
providing for, among other matters:
the investment and holding in escrow
of the proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to be applied to the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds; the application of the moneys derived from those
investments to the payment of the
Bond service charges on those
Refunded Bonds; and the irrevocable
call for redemption of those Outstanding Revenue Bonds identified in the
Certificate of Award to be Refunded
Bonds to be called for redemption
prior to maturity. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the escrow agreement
from proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose. Provision
shall be made in the escrow agreement to give the Trustee any written
notice of redemption required under
Section 4.03 of the Trust Indenture.
The Director of Finance and other
City officials as appropriate under
the Charter shall sign all documents

47

7
and take all other actions necessary
or appropriate on the part of the City
to effect such refunding in accordance with the Trust Indenture and to
cause the Refunded Bonds to be
deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention
of an independent firm of accountants
to verify the mathematical accuracy
of the calculations relating to the
escrow.
Section 8. Remarketing.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is advantageous to the City to
convert the interest on any Outstanding Revenue Bonds bearing interest
at variable rates to fixed interest
rates for a period of time or to maturity, or to convert the interest on any
Outstanding Revenue Bonds to a different variable rate period or mode, or
to terminate or take other actions
with respect to any existing Credit
Support Instrument that will require
a tender and remarketing of any Outstanding Revenue Bonds under the
Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds (such conversion or other actions and the tender and remarketing being collectively referred to in this Section as
“remarketing”), the City shall undertake the remarketing in accordance
with the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds. In connection with any remarketing of Revenue Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to take such actions that
she determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, will
facilitate the remarketing of the Revenue Bonds or otherwise be in the
best interests of the City, including
without limitation, obtaining one or
more Credit Support Instruments, terminating any Credit Support Instrument, and entering into agreements
with one or more purchasers for their
direct purchase of the remarketed
Revenue Bonds in lieu of a public
offering of the Revenue Bonds by a
remarketing agent. In the event the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Supplemental Indenture applicable to a
Series of Revenue Bonds to be remarketed in order to address current market conditions or to permit the use of
or to terminate a Credit Support
Instrument
or
otherwise
obtain
financing arrangements advantageous to the City, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director
of Port Control, or any two of them,
are authorized to sign and deliver an
amendment of that Supplemental
Indenture, or an amended and restated Supplemental Indenture, approved
as to form by the Director of Law, subject to the Trust Indenture.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to satisfy the Required
Bond Service Reserve for the Revenue Bonds then outstanding under
the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds by the
deposit of a credit facility in lieu of
cash, as permitted and more specifically provided in the Trust Indenture,
and to apply cash released from the
Bond Service Reserve Fund to the
payment of costs of remarketing the
Revenue Bonds for which the interest
rate has been converted from variable
rates of interest to fixed rates of interest. To the extent the costs of remarketing are not paid from any cash
released from the Bond Service

8
Reserve Fund, those costs shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106 and 60 SF 141
and/or passenger facility charges, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance after consultation with the
Director of Port Control.
The Director of Finance and the
Director of Port Control are authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with
any conversion and remarketing
under the same terms and conditions
as set forth in Section 13 of this Ordinance with respect to Refunding
Bonds. The Director of Finance, the
Director of Port Control and other
City officials, as appropriate under
the Charter, are authorized to take
such actions or cause to be taken such
actions as are necessary to maintain
the status of any Outstanding Revenue Bonds as Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and the covenants and authorizations
in Section 11 of this Ordinance shall
apply to any converted Revenue
Bonds that are Tax-Exempt Bonds.
The Director of Finance, the Director
of Port Control and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized to sign and deliver
such instruments, certificates and
documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance, the Director of
Port Control, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate
under the Charter, are authorized to
make the necessary arrangements on
behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the conversion and remarketing of any series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds and to take all
actions necessary to effect the conversion and remarketing of any
series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds
under the terms of this Ordinance and
the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds. The
Clerk of Council shall furnish the
Remarketing Agent a true transcript
of proceedings certified by the Clerk
or other official, of all proceedings
had with reference to the conversion
and remarketing of any series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds along with
such information for the records as is
necessary to determine the validity of
the conversion and remarketing.
Section 9. Authorization of Supplemental Indentures and Amendments
of Trust Indenture.
In order to secure the payment of
the principal of and any premium and
interest on the Refunding Bonds, the
Mayor, the Director of Finance and
the Director of Port Control, or any
two of them, are authorized, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver to the Trustee, in
trust for the Original Purchasers and
subsequent holders of the Refunding
Bonds, one or more Supplemental
Indentures, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
not inconsistent with this Ordinance,
the Certificate of Award and the
Trust Indenture and not substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing the
same on behalf of the City. The determination by those officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and delivery of that Supplemental
Indenture by those officers. Any Supplemental Indenture may contain
amendments to the Trust Indenture to
permit the City increased flexibility
for the use of financial or credit structures and techniques determined by

The City Record
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
to be in the best interests of the City.
Section 10. Credit Support Instruments. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract from time to
time for one or more Credit Support
Instruments for any series of Revenue Bonds or any Hedge Agreement
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in savings to
the City, will stabilize interest rates
or minimize the risk of increased
interest expense or increased risks,
burdens, or other costs associated
with hedging arrangements or relating to Revenue Bonds or reserve
requirements.
The
Director
of
Finance is further authorized to
agree to the amendment, replacement, assignment or termination of
any Credit Support Instrument if the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the City’s best
interests will be served by such
amendment, replacement, assignment
or termination. In the event the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Trust Indenture or a Supplemental Indenture in
order to permit the use of, or to
amend, replace, assign or terminate, a
Credit Support Instrument, the Mayor
and the Director of Finance are authorized to sign and deliver a Supplemental Indenture amending the Trust
Indenture or an amendment of a Supplemental Indenture, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director
of Law. The cost of obtaining, amending, replacing, assigning or terminating each Credit Support Instrument,
except to the extent paid from proceeds of Revenue Bonds or otherwise,
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF
001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106 and
60 SF 141 and/or passenger facility
charges, as determined by the Director of Finance after consultation with
the Director of Port Control.
Section 11.  Tax Covenants.
(a)
Tax-Exempt
Bonds.
With
respect to Refunding Bonds that are
to be issued and sold as Tax-Exempt
Bonds, the City covenants that:
(i) It will use, and will restrict the
use and investment of, the proceeds of
the Tax-Exempt Bonds in such manner and to such extent as may be necessary so that (A) the interest on the
Tax-Exempt Bonds will be excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, and (B) in the case of
any Tax-Exempt Bonds qualifying as
bonds, the interest on which is not
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code (“NonAMT Bonds”), such Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be treated as Non-AMT
Bonds.
(ii) It further covenants that (A) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (B) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (C) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (1) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purposes of the borrowing, (2)
restrict the yield on investment property, (3) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(4) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(5) refrain from certain uses of those

48

January 16, 2013
proceeds and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
(b) Direct Payment Obligations.
With respect to any series of Refunding Bonds that are to be issued and
sold as Direct Payment Obligations,
the City covenants that:
(i) It will use, and will restrict the
use and investment of, the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that the Refunding Bonds will
qualify as Direct Payment Obligations under the applicable provisions
of the Code.
(ii) It further covenants that (A) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the Refunding Bonds to be and
remain Direct Payment Obligations,
(B) it will not take or authorize to be
taken any actions that would adversely affect that status, and (C) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other
acts of compliance, (1) apply or cause
the application of the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (2)
restrict yield on investment property,
(3) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (4)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports and (5)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such tax status.
(c) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Refunding Bonds, is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Refunding Bonds as the
City is permitted or required to make
or give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, the election to issue a series
of Refunding Bonds as Direct Payment Obligations, or any of the elections provided for in or available
under the Code for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting the
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Refunding Bonds or interest
thereon or entitlement to Direct Payments relating thereto, or assisting
compliance with requirements for
that purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing
the rebate amount or payments of
penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and signed
by the officer, (b) to take any and all
other actions, make or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or
give reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City, as
may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status of
the Refunding Bonds and the City’s
entitlement to receive Direct Payments, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax

January 16, 2013
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Refunding Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section
with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Tax-Exempt Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Tax-Exempt Bonds.
Section 12.  Additional Documents.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Port Control and other
City officials as appropriate under
the Charter are authorized to sign and
deliver such instruments, certificates
and documents as are necessary or
appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Ordinance,
the Bond Purchase Agreements, the
Supplemental Indentures, the Trust
Indenture, the Escrow Agreements
and the Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Port Control, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the City to establish the date, location, procedure and
conditions for the delivery of each
series of Refunding Bonds to the Original Purchasers and to take all
actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of
each series of Refunding Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Indentures, the Bond Purchase Agreements and the Trust
Indenture. The Clerk of Council or
other officials of the City as appropriate under the Charter shall furnish
the Original Purchasers a true transcript of proceedings certified by the
Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds
along with such information for the
records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds.
Section 13. Official Statements; Continuing Disclosure.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Port Control and other
City officials as appropriate under
the Charter, each is authorized on
behalf of the City to (i) prepare or
cause to be prepared, and make or
authorize modifications, completions
or changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a
preliminary official statement relating to the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds of one or more series, and (ii)
determine, and certify or otherwise
represent, when each preliminary
official statement as so prepared is a
“deemed final” official statement
(except for permitted omissions) by
the City as of its date for purposes of
Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) Rule 15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution and use of one or more preliminary official statements are hereby authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them are
also authorized, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, to
complete each preliminary official
statement with such modifications,
changes and supplements as those
officers shall approve or authorize for
the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify or otherwise
represent, that the official statement

The City Record
as so revised is a final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c212(b) (3) and (4). Those officers each
are further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, one or more final official
statements and supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Refunding Bonds as
may, in their judgment, be necessary
or appropriate. Those officers each
are further authorized to sign and
deliver, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, each final
official statement and such certificates in connection with the accuracy
of each preliminary official statement and each final official statement and any amendments thereto as
may, in their judgment, also be necessary or appropriate. The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final official statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Refunding Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as an obligated person with respect to the Refunding Bonds under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance and
the Director of Port Control are authorized to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Refunding Bonds in accordance with
SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of
that agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform
it.
Section 14.  Lien of Pledge.
The Airport Revenues are subject
to the lien of the pledge under the
Trust Indenture without any physical
delivery of the Airport Revenues or
further act, and the lien of such
pledge is valid and binding against
all parties having claims of any kind
against the City (irrespective of
whether such parties have notice of
such pledge and create a perfected
security interest for all purposes of
Chapter 1309, Ohio Revised Code)
without the necessity for separation
of delivery of the Airport Revenues or
for the filing or recording of the Trust
Indenture or any other resolution or
instrument by which such pledge is
created or any certificate, statement
or other document with respect to
such pledge. The pledge of the Airport Revenues under the Trust Indenture shall be effective and the money
therefrom and thereof may be applied
to the purposes for which pledged
without necessity for any further act
of appropriation.
Section 15. Financial Advisors and
Consultants.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance or to negoti-

49

9
ate any Hedge Agreements. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any Financial Advisor so retained. The Director of Port
Control may obtain the services of
one or more feasibility consultants,
from time to time, to provide reports
in connection with the issuance and
sale of any Refunding Bonds or the
delivery of any Hedge Agreements
concerning the utilization and operation of the Airport System, debt service coverage, rates and charges or
other matters. Any Financial Advisor
or consultant employed under the
authority of this Ordinance shall be
disinterested in the transaction and
be independent of the underwriters or
counterparties and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 16. Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Director of Finance is hereby
authorized to appoint a successor
Trustee in the event that the current
Trustee, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., shall resign
or be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting as
Trustee under the Trust Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the control of any public officer or officers or
of a receiver appointed by a court, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 12.08 of the Trust Indenture.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to the adoption of
this Ordinance were adopted in an
open meeting of the Council, and that
all deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted in
such formal action were in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all applicable legal requirements.
Section 18. Separability.
Each section of this Ordinance and
each subdivision of any section is
declared to be independent, and the
finding or holding of any section or
subdivision of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed or
held to affect the validity of any other
section or subdivision of this Ordinance.
Section 19.  Recitals.
It is determined and recited that all
acts, conditions and things necessary
to be done precedent to and in the
issuing of the Refunding Bonds in
order to make the same legal, valid
and binding special obligations
issued by the City of Cleveland, Ohio
will have happened, been done and
performed or will happen, be done and
performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 20.  Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by Section 2
of this Ordinance to issue Refunding
Bonds shall expire three years from
the effective date of this Ordinance. If
a preliminary official statement with
respect to the issuance of a series of
Refunding Bonds is distributed under
the authority of this Ordinance at any
time within the three-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to that series of
Refunding Bonds. The Director of
Finance shall notify the Chairman of
the Finance Committee and the Clerk
of this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any Refunding Bonds
under the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 21.  Emergency.
This ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it

10
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its adoption
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 66-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Criminal
Justice Services Agency for the 2012
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program; and to enter into one or more
contracts with Cuyahoga County and
other entities to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Law
is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$115,397.29, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term, from the Criminal Justice
Service Agency, to conduct the 2012
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, for the purposes set forth in the
application and according thereto;
that the Director of Law is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for the grant.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 66-13-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority, including
the obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in the
sum of $38,465.76, from Fund No. 011001-6397, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
is authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the County of Cuyahoga and one or more contracts with
other entities to implement the program as described in the file.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance and the cash match
from funds appropriated in budget
year 2013 for this purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 67-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to apply for and accept a
grant from the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation and PEW Charitable

The City Record
Trusts for the Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to apply for and accept a grant
in the approximate amount up to
$250,000, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term from the Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation and PEW Charitable Trusts to conduct the Health
Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the Health
Impact Assessment Factsheet and the
2012 Call for Proposal book for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the Health Impact
Assessment Factsheet and the 2012
Call for Proposal book for the grant,
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at a public hearing on
this legislation and set forth in File
No. 67-13-A, is made a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities,
or individuals to provide advisory services to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of the City Planning Commission may
sign all documents and do all things
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process. The contracts will be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any grant funds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Public Health,
Finance, Law; Committees on City
Planning, Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 68-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Mount Olivet Church of God in
Christ (formerly the Second German
Reformed Church) as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate Mount Olivet

50

January 16, 2013
Church of God in Christ (formerly the
Second German Reformed Church) as
a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of Mount Olivet
Church of God in Christ (formerly the
Second German Reformed Church)
has been properly notified and has
consented in writing to the proposed
designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of Mount
Olivet Church of God in Christ (formerly the Second German Reformed
Church) as a landmark and has set
forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest
or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Mount Olivet Church
of God in Christ (formerly the Second
German Reformed Church), whose
street addresses in the City of Cleveland are 1221-23 East 99th Street and
9900-12 Olivet Avenue, N. E., Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Numbers are 109-10-082, 109-10083, and 109-10-175, and is also known
as the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots
Numbers 37, 38, 39, and 40 in William
Phillips’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Number
377, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 18 of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
Easterly line of East 99th Street (formerly Hampden Street) with the
Southerly line of Olivet Avenue, N. E.,
(formerly Gertrude Street); thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
East 99th Street, 115 feet to its intersection with the Northerly line of Tanner Avenue, N. E., the Northerly line
of Tanner Avenue, N. E., being also
the Southerly line of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot Number 377; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of
Tanner Avenue, N. E., 129.46 feet;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of Sublot Number 37, 115 feet to
its intersection with the Southerly
line of Olivet Avenue, N. E.; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
Olivet Avenue, N. E., 129.46 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways;
Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

January 16, 2013
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on
City Planning.
Ord. No. 69-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing actions to manage Existing
Hedge Agreements and authorizing
and approving related matters.
Whereas, in past years, the City,
from time to time, entered into Hedge
Agreements, defined in Section 1, to
achieve what were then determined
to be optimal debt service structures
with respect to certain bonds issued
by the City, and certain of those
agreements, referred to as the Existing Hedge Agreements and more
fully described in Section 1, remain in
effect; and
Whereas, in order to effectively
manage the Existing Hedge Agreements in response to changes in the
credit quality of financial institutions
serving as counterparties to Hedge
Agreements and changes in the financial markets, it is necessary, from
time to time, to enter into amendments, modifications, or terminations
of Hedge Agreements, including the
novation from one counterparty to
another counterparty; and
Whereas, the number and credit
quality of financial institutions available as counterparties to Hedge
Agreements has generally diminished, and recent federal regulations
have imposed certain responsibilities
on providers of Hedge Agreements
toward their counterparties which
are expected to further affect the
availability of counterparties and the
terms of Hedge Agreements; and
Whereas, in order to respond to
market conditions on a timely basis to
stabilize interest rates or to minimize
risks of increased interest expense or
to avoid or minimize burdens or risks
or costs or other expenses associated
with the Existing Hedge Agreements
or related Credit Support Instruments, as defined in Section 1, this
Council has determined to authorize
the amendment, modification, novation or termination of any of the
Existing Hedge Agreement as provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department and providing
for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that authorizing the restructuring of outstanding Hedge Agreements and related agreements is necessary to enable the City to respond to
market conditions on a timely basis
for the benefit of the City; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. The following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings, unless the context or use indicates a contrary meaning or intention.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Hedge Agreement.
“Existing
Hedge
Agreements”
means the Pension Bonds Hedge
Agreement, the Parking Revenue
Bonds Hedge Agreement, the Water
Revenue Bonds Hedge Agreements
and any Hedge Agreement entered
into in replacement thereof.

The City Record
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, in connection with any Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” means an interest rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate
collar or other hedging transaction
undertaken to reduce costs of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and variable rate
obligations or minimizing the risk of
variations in debt service costs or confirming rates of interest on obligations in advance of their issuance.
“Parking Revenue Bonds Hedge
Agreement” means the interest rate
swap transaction documented by the
ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule
and Credit Support Annex, each dated
February 13, 2003, as amended from
time to time, including August 3, 2006,
and the Confirmation dated August 3,
2006, as amended from time to time,
including September 15, 2011, between
UBS AG and the City, originally
entered into in connection with the
City’s Parking Facilities Refunding
Revenue Bonds, Series 2006.
“Pension Bonds Hedge Agreement”
means the swaption transaction documented by the ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule and Confirmation,
each dated February 7, 2003, between
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the
City, originally entered into in connection with the City’s Subordinated
Income Tax Variable Rate Refunding
Bonds, Series 1994, and now relating
to obligations issued by the City to
refund those bonds.
“Water Revenue Bonds Hedge
Agreements” means (a) the interest
rate swap transaction documented by
the ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule, Credit Support Annex and Confirmation, each dated July 20, 2004, as
amended from time to time, including
February 12, 2009 and October 23,
2012, between Morgan Stanley Capital
Services LLC and the City, and (b) the
interest rate swap transaction documented by the ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule, Credit Support Annex
and Confirmation, each dated July 20,
2004, as amended from time to time,
including February 12, 2009 and October 23, 2012, between JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. (formerly Bear Stearns
Financial Products, Inc.) and the
City, both of which were originally
entered into in connection with the
City’s Water Revenue Bonds, Series
M, 2004, and now relating to various
series of refunding obligations issued
by the City to refund bonds issued to
refund those original bonds.
Section 2. Authorization of Actions
to Manage Existing Hedge Agreements. Notwithstanding and as an
exception to any contrary provision in
any other ordinance of the City, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
take actions to manage Existing
Hedge Agreements as provided in
this Ordinance. To permit the City to
minimize risks, burdens or costs associated with, and to have the flexibility to manage the continuing obligations under, each Existing Hedging
Agreement, any related Credit Support Instrument, or any other related
agreement necessary for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Existing Hedge Agreement (in each case, including without
limitation,
managing
actual
or
expected collateral requirements, protecting against the risk of counterparty default, minimizing the risk of
variations or increases in financing
costs, ensuring compliance with
applicable law), this Council autho-

51

11
rizes the Director of Finance to enter
into amendments, modifications or
novations of, or to terminate, in whole
or in part, any Existing Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument if the Director of Finance determines, based on the written advice of
a Financial Advisor, that (a) the
amendment, modification, novation or
termination is (i) justified by the corresponding benefit to the City, (ii)
commercially reasonable based on
then-current market conditions, and
(iii) in the City’s best interests, and
(b) any payments made or to be made
by the counterparty to the City, or by
the City to the counterparty, are fair
value for such amendment, modification, novation or termination, given
the credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the amendment, modification, novation or termination.
The Director of Finance is authorized to negotiate the terms of each
amendment, modification, novation or
termination of any Existing Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions of the amendment, modification,
novation or termination of any Existing Hedge Agreement, including
without limitation, the rates to be
paid by the counterparty to the City
and by the City to the counterparty
under the Hedge Agreement, the time
or times and procedures for the exercise by the counterparty or the City,
as the case may be, of any option
under the Hedge Agreement, and
whether the obligations of the City
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
secured by a Credit Support Instrument and, if so, the terms and conditions of such Credit Support Instrument. The approval of each amendment, modification, novation or termination of an Existing Hedge Agreement by the Director of Finance shall
be conclusively evidenced by the
signing and delivery of the applicable
instrument
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Any payments owed by the City
upon such amendment, modification,
novation or termination may be paid
from money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. The obligation of the
City to make payments under any
Hedge Agreement does not and shall
not represent or constitute a general
obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness
or a pledge of the faith and credit of
the City or the State of Ohio. Nothing
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 3. Financial Advisors. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance or to negotiate any amendment, modification,
novation or termination of any Existing Hedge Agreement. Any Financial
Advisor employed under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the counterparties and any
other party interested in the transaction. The Director of Finance may
rely on the written advice of any
Financial Advisor so retained.
Section 4. Captions, Headings, and
Section References. The captions and
headings in this Ordinance are solely

The City Record

12
for convenience of reference and in no
way define, limit, or describe the
scope or intent of any sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs,
or clauses hereof. Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance
unless otherwise indicated.
Section 5. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the matters authorized
herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding
Hedge
Agreement,
bonds, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, indentures, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 6. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance with
all applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council.
Section 7. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subsection or paragraph of any section is
hereby declared to be independent,
and the finding or holding of any section or any subsection or paragraph
of any section to be invalid or void
shall not be deemed or held to affect
the validity of any other section, subsection or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 8. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of its
committees concerning and relating
to the passage of this Ordinance were
taken in an open meeting of this
Council or committees, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
those formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, all in compliance
with the law.
Section 9.    Emergency. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 65-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 615-12,
passed April 30, 2012, relating to the
West 3rd Street lift bridge repairs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 615-12, passed April 30, 2012,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to make a
written contract with Zenith Systems
L.L.C., based upon its April 11, 2012
proposal, as amended April 18, 2012,
for the immediate purchase of labor,
equipment, and materials necessary
to repair the West 3rd Street lift
bridge, including all components, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis, for the Office of Capital Projects, for an estimated cost of
$2,138,286.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 615-12, passed April 30,
2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED

Ord. No. 63-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to name
the skate park located at 1785 Merwin
on the east bank of the Cuyahoga
River in the Flats the “Crooked River
Skate Park”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of the
skate park located at 1785 Merwin on
the east bank of the Cuyahoga River
in the Flats shall be the “Crooked
River Skate Park” and that the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized and directed to take
the necessary action to affect the
naming of, and to post the proper
signs at, the skate park.

Ord. No. 27-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
supplemental
lease-purchase
agreements, and other agreements
relating to the lease-purchase of the
Cleveland Stadium; approving supplemental trust agreements and the
issuance of refunding certificates of
participation
or
conversion
and
remarketing of variable rate certificates of participation; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

52

January 16, 2013
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:26 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 28, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 9, 2013
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 9,
2013 at 10:43 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Smith, Cox, Butler, Acting Director
Eckart, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Withers.
Others:
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 23-13.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, Ord. No. 1350-10, passed
November 8, 2010, authorized the
purchase by one or more requirements contracts of computer hardware and software, including printers, ancillary accessories, parts, supplies, peripheral devices, and labor
and materials for installation, if necessary, and maintenance, support
and training, for the various divisions of City government, for a period of three years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
is exercisable through additional
legislative authority; and
Whereas, on March 14, 2012, the
City of Cleveland entered into Contract
RCD2012*15
with
HewlettPackard Company under the terms
and conditions of State of Ohio
Schedule No. 533268-2-24 for a period
up to three years; and
Whereas,
the
Hewlett-Packard
Company has requested, by its letter of December 28, 2012, the consent
of the City to the employment of
MCPc, Inc., an authorized dealer on
State of Ohio Schedule No. 533268-224, as a subcontractor under Contract RCD2012*15; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Hewlett-Packard

January 16, 2013
Company under City Contract No.
RCD2012*15 for computer hardware
and software, including printers,
ancillary accessories, parts, supplies, peripheral devices, and labor
and materials for installation, if necessary, and maintenance, support
and training, for the various divisions of City government, under
authority of Ordinance No. 1350-10,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on November 8, 2010, is
approved.
Sub-contractor
MCPc, Inc.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Eckart,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Withers.
Resolution No. 24-13.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1080-99, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 22,
2000 and Board of Control Resolution No. 808-00, adopted December 6,
2000, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Finance, entered into
City Contract No. 57651 with Montgomery Watson Americas, Inc. to
acquire implementation consultant
services for the Citywide Geographic
Information
System
Program,
including the acquisition and implementation of the Accela software
platform, for use by the various divisions of City Government; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Section 181.102(b) of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, True Point Solutions,
LLC is selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Finance, as determined after a full and complete canvass, as the firm to be employed by
contract for a period of two (2)
years to provide the professional
services necessary to install, design,
train, implement, test, integrate,
migrate, maintain, and provide technical support and other related services, including any equipment necessary to maintain the City’s Accela
software platform.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into a contract with True
Point Solutions, LLC, based upon its
proposal dated July 30, 2012, for a
period of two (2) years for professional services related to the implementation and management of the
Accela software platform. The compensation for the above-described
services shall not exceed $200,000
for the period of two (2) years.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Eckart,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Withers.
Resolution No. 25-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on November 2,
2012, for Citywide tree planting, all
items, for the Division of Park Maintenance,
Department
of
Public

The City Record
Works, under the authority of Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Eckart,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Withers.
Resolution No. 26-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 117-22-037, located at 17601 Rook
Circle in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 848-11
passed July 20, 2011, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when certain specified conditions
have been met, to sell Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas,
William
and
Vivian
Kirkland have proposed to the City
to purchase the parcel for yard
expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved that under the
authority of Ordinance No. 848-11
passed July 20, 2011, by the Cleveland City Council, the consideration
for the sale of Permanent Parcel No.
117-22-037, as described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program, is established as
$350.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
Value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Eckart,
Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Withers.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commis-

53

13
sion has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2013
1/22/13 – 1/28/13

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

1

EE

Chief Architect Building &
Housing
N/C

2

EE

Ground
Maintenance
Truck Driver II

N/C

Manager of
Education &
Research

N/C

3

EE

4

WR

Supervising
Tax Auditor

Open

5

WR

Supervisor of
Radio Service

Open

6

EE

Waste Collection
Driver
N/C

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).

The City Record

14
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.

AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, performs architectural services required
in the construction, alteration, and
addition to buildings. Plans, supervises, and directs assigned personnel.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 1
CHIEF ARCHITECT (BUILDING &
HOUSING) (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.10 to $101,803.10 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Architecture or Engineering from an
accredited four year college or university is required. Five years of full
time paid experience as a registered
Architect or Engineer is required.
Experience as a Plans Examiner is
preferred. Must be a registered Architect or Engineer and an interim or
full-fledged Plans Examiner. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 2
GROUND MAINTENANCE TRUCK
DRIVER II (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY

January 16, 2013
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON MONDAY, JANUARY 28,
2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Operates all mobile motorized equipment and/or vehicles assigned to the
Division of Park Maintenance & Properties as directed by supervision
(vehicles include but are not limited
to those over 26,000 pounds GVWR
such as dump trucks, combination
vehicles, waste packers, farm tractors, snow clearance equipment/vehicles, and the like). Provides maintenance services to all properties within the jurisdiction of the City of Cleveland, Division of Park Maintenance &
Properties. Operates hand and power
tools associated with grounds and
landscape maintenance. Performs
routine maintenance on assigned
equipment and vehicles. Supervises
student workers and seasonal staff
assigned to their crew. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam).
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $12.34 to $19.53 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL

54

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in the operation of farm
tractors greater than 30 horsepower
with various grounds maintenance
and landscape attachments, preferably in a park maintenance or landscape operations setting is required.
One year of full time paid experience
in the operation of trucks greater
than 26,000 pounds GVWR is required.
A valid State of Ohio CDL Class A is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry 50 pounds. Must be capable of

The City Record

January 16, 2013
working in all climates. Must be a
City of Cleveland Seasonal Snow
Removal Vehicle Operator or a TA
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 3
MANAGER OF EDUCATION
RESEARCH (NON-COMP)

AND

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $27,325.58 - $90,294.88 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, develops,
presents, and/or manages training
and staff development programs on a

City-wide, departmental, or divisional
level or on behalf of the City for outside organizations. Manages Citywide training program and schedule
through prioritization and use of service contracts to meet specific training needs. Utilizes the City’s HR computer program to document employee
training. Tracks and measures success of employee training and makes
adjustments, as necessary. Advises
and supports supervisors’ efforts to
reinforce employee accountability for
training efforts. Performs training
needs
assessments
as
required.
Matches required knowledge, skills,
and abilities with specific training
designed to meet identified needs.
Identifies skilled internal trainers
and coordinates train-the trainer
preparation for qualified personnel.
Consults with and develops cooperative relationships with area employers or organizations and develops
ongoing relationships with area institutions of higher learning as appropriate to maximize the City’s training
resources. Coordinates, produces, and
distributes training schedules. Performs research regarding topics for
training. Designs or purchases classroom training materials. Performs
other duties as assigned. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam).
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree from
an accredited four year college or university in Business, Public Administration, Human Resources Management or related field with coursework
in organizational development, industrial psychology, adult learning, or
related field is required, a Master’s
Degree is preferred. Seven years of
full time paid experience in employee
training and development with public
or classroom presentation to adult
learners, including three at a supervisory level, is required. Experience
gained at management level is preferred. Must be computer proficient
and have the ability to use Microsoft
Office, Excel, Access and Power
Point. Must be able to utilize and generate reports using the City’s HR
database. Must be able to demonstrate excellent oral and written communication skills. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

55

15
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 4
SUPERVISING
(OPEN)

TAX

AUDITOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $60,148.40 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON TUESDAY, 22, 2013
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: Written Test — Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Supervises a group of Tax Auditors in
examination of returns, documents of
all types, and the files of taxpayers.
Conducts investigations necessary to
secure compliance with the income
tax ordinance. Conducts field investigations of possible non-compliance.
Makes personal audits and investigations of doubtful or more difficult
cases. Interprets the ordinance, rules
and regulations, and assists taxpayers in making returns. Approves
refunds to taxpayers up to a prescribed amount and helps to develop
procedures of tax application. He/she
lays out and reviews the work of the
staff, trains new personnel, and does
other related work. Works directly
under the Chief of Tax Auditing
Bureau and is responsible for referral
of special cases. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

The City Record

16
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting, Finance, Business, or
related field from an accredited fouryear college or university is required.
One year of full time paid experience
in accounting or accounting consultation is required, three years is preferred. One year experience in the
preparation or auditing of income
taxes is preferred. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking, up to two years of education.) Must be proficient in Microsoft
Office Suite and accounting software
packages. Strong analytical, problemsolving, writing, and verbal communication skills are required. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 30 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 5
SUPERVISOR OF RADIO SERVICE
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.13 - $25.48 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside

Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON TUESDAY, JANUARY
22, 2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON MONDAY,
JANUARY 28, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION:
Applicants will be notified of the
time, date, and place of the exam by
U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, supervises, directs, provides technical input,
and assists the Radio Technicians in
the performance of tasks involving
installation, operation, maintenance,
testing, programming, and configuration of the 800 MHz Radio System
infrastructure and subscriber equipment. Responsible for maintaining
records of work performed, schedules,
preparing reports and correspondence, as well as attending and participating in meetings. Reviews
design, implementation, and documentation of systems, wiring, etc.
Develops and implements subscriber
templates. Responsible for purchasing and inventory control of parts,
supplies, and equipment. Performs
and/or supervises more difficult technical work required for the communications system and other electronic
equipment. Ensures compliance with
all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements. Performs other duties
as required. Follows up on orders and
handles
complaints.
Maintains
records of prices and sources of supply. Approves invoices for purchases.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree
and/or vocational training certification, with major coursework in communications technology or a related
field is required, a Bachelor’s Degree
is preferred. Two years of full time

56

January 16, 2013
paid experience in radio systems technology or a related field with emphasis on installing and servicing vehicle
electronics, systems maintenance,
and troubleshooting. Prior supervisory/managerial experience preferred.
Must have hands on experience with
digital two-way radios/electronic
communications systems. (Substitution: Two years of paid experience
may be substituted for each year of
education lacking.) A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s is required. Must be
knowledgeable of computers and
have a working knowledge of
Microsoft operating system and
Office Suite. Must be able to perform
work in various settings and in all
weather conditions. Must be able to
work long shifts and/or irregular
hours; and must be available for oncall assignments on an as-needed
basis. Must be able to lift and carry 50
pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 6
WASTE
COLLECTION
(NON-COMP)

DRIVER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $12.33 to $19.51 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO

January 16, 2013
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON MONDAY, JANUARY 28,
2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Operates the truck mechanism for
loading, unloading, and compacting.
Drives a dump truck, manual or automatic shift, with hydraulic lifts and
compressing operations. Must have a
knowledge of the streets of Cleveland. Performs the duties for which
the truck was designed. Is responsible for the normal, preventative maintenance of his/her assigned vehicle
such as, but not limited to, checking
oil, checking tires, checking water,
checking fuel, fuel lights, and packer
blade operations. Keeps daily written
records as required by division. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) —
Class B is required. Four years of full
time paid experience operating a
Waste Collection vehicle or a straight
truck is required. Must have a good
driving record and must comply with
a ten year background check. Must be
a City of Cleveland Seasonal Snow
Removal Vehicle Operator or a TA
Waste Collection Driver.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

The City Record

17

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

an interior side yard equal to one
quarter of the height of the building, or 20 feet 6 inches, that is
required according to the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Calendar No. 12-233: 8220 Carnegie
Avenue (Ward 6)
PNC Bank, owner, appeals to erect
five (5) 2'-6" x 6'-8" double faced
wall projecting banner signs in a
General Retail Business District on
a corner building and requesting 88
square feet contrary to the maximum of 12 square feet that is
allowed by the provisions for signs
permitted in accordance with the
Schedule of Permitted Types, Number, Area and Height Table, provided under Section 350.14(b) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

]ROBERT BENNETT,
President
January 16, 2013

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-209: 12905 Bellaire
Road (Ward 17)
Sameer Shann, owner appeals to
add 1,786 square feet to an existing
glass contractor business in a onestory building on a 40' x 128' corner parcel in a C1 Local Retail Business District; and the proposed addition/expansion of a nonconforming
use requires the Board of Zoning
Appeals
approval
in
accordance
with Section 359.01; and subject to
the regulations under Section 343.11,
an office, display or sales space of
a contracting establishment is first
permitted in a General Retail District, and in connection with which
not more than 25% of the building
floor area is used for repairing,
altering, finishing or refinishing the
products or merchandise; and contrary to Section 349.04(i) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances, 2
additional
parking
spaces
are
required for the proposed 1,786
square foot addition and no additional parking space is proposed.
Calendar No. 12-232 11401 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 9)
AJAPPJR Uptown 2 appeals to
erect a 6-story apartment and commercial space proposed to be on consolidated parcels in an E3 General
Retail Business District between
Ford Drive and East 115th Street;
and in accordance with Section
343.18(2)(b) a driveway must be 15
feet from the property line along
Ford Drive and under Section 349.04
accessory
off-street
parking
to
accommodate 84 residential units
and approximately 28,000 square
feet of commercial space requires
250 parking spaces. Pursuant to Sections 352.08-12, an 8 foot wide transition landscaped strip providing 75
percent
year-round
opacity
is
required at the rear of the property
where it abuts the residential district; and by the provisions under
Section
355.04(b)
the
maximum
gross floor area shall not exceed
one and one-half times the lot area
and an approximate 118,000 square
feet of floor area is proposed, contrary to approximately 79,500 square
feet that is the maximum allowed.
The building is proposed to be set
back zero feet from Euclid Avenue
and Ford Drive, contrary to Section
357.07 and the specific 10 foot setback line along Euclid Avenue and
approximately 5 feet (35 feet from
street center line) for Ford Drive;
and proposing an 8 foot wide side
yard, contrary to Section 357.09 and

57

Calendar No. 12-234: 2277 East 49th
Street PPN 104-24-063 (Ward 5)
Farid Elabed and Fatima Lange,
owners, appeal under the authority
of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Ohio Code
of Ordinances from a decision of the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses as authorized under Section 209.05 to file a written return
to the County Auditor for a decision
of the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties, to certify
the costs of abatement services in
the sum of $92.58 for a vacant lot at
2277 East 49th Street, Permanent
Parcel Number 103-24-063, and to
allow the costs to become a lien on
the property and to be collected in
the same manner as other taxes and
returned to the City general fund in
accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 731.
Calendar No. 12-235: 2256 East 55th
Street PPN 103-24-080 (Ward 5)
Elabed,
LLC,
owner,
appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Ohio Code of Ordinances
from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses as
authorized under Section 209.05 to
file a written return to the County
Auditor for a decision of the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and
Properties, to certify the costs of
abatement services in the sum of
$449.61 for a vacant lot at 2256 East
55th Street, Permanent Parcel Number 103-24-080, and to allow the costs
to become a lien on the property and
to be collected in the same manner
as other taxes and returned to the
City general fund in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 731.
Calendar No. 12-236: 2256 East 55th
Street PPN 103-24-081 (Ward 5)
Elabed,
LLC,
owner,
appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Ohio Code of Ordinances
from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses as
authorized under Section 209.05 to
file a written return to the County
Auditor for a decision of the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and
Properties, to certify the costs of
abatement services in the sum of
$174.30 for a vacant lot at 2256 East
55th Street, Permanent Parcel Number 103-24-081, and to allow the costs
to become a lien on the property and

The City Record

18
to be collected in the same manner
as other taxes and returned to the
City general fund in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 731.
Calendar No. 12-192: 2276 East 55th
Street PPN 103-24-084 (Ward 5)
Fatima Lange, owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Ohio Code of Ordinances
from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses as
authorized under Section 209.05 to
file a written return to the County
Auditor for a decision of the Commissioner of Park Maintenance and
Properties, to certify the costs of
abatement services in the sum of
$256.22 for a vacant lot at 2276 East
55th Street, Permanent Parcel Number 103-24-084, and to allow the costs
to become a lien on the property and
to be collected in the same manner
as other taxes and returned to the
City general fund in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 731.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
14, 2013, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-221: Violation Notice
4019-21 Brooklyn Avenue
Diane Stiver appealed from a decision rendered by the City of Cleveland Parking Violations Bureau,
Waste Collection and Photo Safety
Division for failure to comply with
Section 551.111(B); penalty reduced
to $250.00.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 12-207: 4455 Pearl Road
postponed to April 1, 2013.
Calendar No. 12-218: 5401 St. Clair
Avenue postponed to March 4,
2013.
Calendar No. 12-220: 1170 Ivanhoe
Road postponed to March 11, 2013.

January 16, 2013

ply with Section 551.111(B); penalty
reduced to $250.00.
Calendar No. 12-219: 2170 West 7th
Street
Victor Selig appealed to erect a
three-story single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 MultiFamily District.
Calendar No. 12-184: 6555 Carnegie
Avenue
Hemingway at 6555 LLC appealed
to erect a 180 foot telecommunications tower in a Midtown Mixed Use
District 3; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 12-214: 3204 Carroll
Avenue
Scott Maloney appealed to establish a 10 car parking lot in a B1
Two-Family District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-211: Violation Notice
4250 West 38th Street
George Caraman appealed from a
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division for failure to comply with Section 551.111(B) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances; decision
of
the
Hearing
Examiner
affirmed.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-210: 3432 West
117th Street
Kari Bast-Payne appealed from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 337.178.(a) in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
January 2, 2013
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *

Calendar No. 12-205: 3675 East 65th
Street scheduled for January 22,
2013 postponed to February 25,
2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on January 7, 2013 were
adopted and approved on January
14, 2013:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-213: Violation Notice
3914 Arnold Avenue
Litsandra Mulero appealed from a
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau, Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division for failure to com-

Docket A-206-12.
RE: Appeal of Annette Scott,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer Property, located on the premises known as 480
Cleveland Road, from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, date July 27, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and an additional

58

sixty (60) days in which to complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that failure to meet either date will
result
in
the
property
being
REMANDED immediately; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-253-12.
RE: Appeal of Andre Williams,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
14007 Idarose Avenue, from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 11,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the
violations,
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-254-12.
RE: Appeal of Pam Finch, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit Residential Property, located on the premises known as 16901 Lotus Drive, from
a LIMITATION ON THE PERMIT,
dated September 11, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant a six (6) month Extension
of Time on the permit, noting that
an additional six (6) months is
available if the Appellant appears
before the Board and requests that
extension due to the inaction of the
insurance company. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-257-12.
RE: Appeal of Maxies E. Morrell,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3652 Independence Road, from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 12,
2012 of the Director of the Depart-

The City Record

January 16, 2013
ment of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that based
on the photographic evidence presented and the fact that the Appellant was not present for hearing,
the appeal for additional time is
DENINED; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-258-12.
RE: Appeal of Patricia Otloski &
Wanda Otloski, Owners of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 4962 Mead Avenue, from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE,
dated September 11, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to submit either a renovation plan
or another disposition plan for the
property to the Department of Building and Housing, noting that the
property is to remain secured and
the grounds debris-free during that
period of time. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-259-12.
RE: Appeal of Charles Sogbesan,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3695 East 59th Street, from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 31, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time and to
REMANDED the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting the condition
of the property represented by photographs and the absence of the
Appellant at the hearing. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. .Maschke
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

Docket A-260-12.
RE: Appeal of Leon Fletcher,
Owner of the A-3 Assembly – Recreation or Religious Facilities One &
One/half Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
721 Eddy Road from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated September 12, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to present a plan and obtain all
required permits to renovate the
property, at which time the Building
Department will give the Appellant
six (6) months to complete the renovation of the property with an
Extension of Time to be granted if
the Appellant is making satisfactory progress in that six (6) month
period; the property is to remain
boarded
and
secured
and
the
grounds debris-free during that period
of
time.
The
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-261-12.
RE: Appeal of Ferrell Okie Lee
(Deceased) C/O Artistine Beavers
Cunningham, Owner of the S-2 Storage
–
Low
Hazard
(Non-combustibles) One Story Masonry Property located on the premises known
as 2980 East 81st Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated October 10, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to clean out and remove personal
items from the property. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

19
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to present a plan and obtain all
required permits, and to grant the
Appellant six (6) months, on the residential
structure
and
six
(6)
months on the commercial structure
in which to complete abatement of
the
violations.
The
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-264-12.
RE: Appeal of CNL APF Partners,
LP, Owner of the Business – Offices,
Laboratories, Adult School One Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 16015 Lakeshore
Boulevard, from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated September 19, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
requested sixty (60) days in which
to completed plans and submit them
to the Building Department for permits, and one hundred eighty (180)
days in which to complete the construction of the white box and an
additional one hundred eighty (180)
in which to complete the renovation
of the property for rental or occupancy. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Denk and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Docket A-263-12.
RE: Appeal of Willie R. Townes,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses —
Multiple Uses In One Building Two
Story Frame Property, and MXD
Mixed Uses – Multiple Uses In One
Building
One
Story
Garage
—
Detached; Wood Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3291 East 49th Street, from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
October 11, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City

59

A-215-12 — Cuyahoga County (Not
Adopted)
A-244-12 — Khoa Dane Nguyen
A-245-12 — Johnnie Benson
A-247-12 — Rosetta M. Wyar
A-248-12 — Rosetta M. Wyar
A-250-12 — Sabrina Sutton
A-251-12 — Allan E. Bryson
A-252-12 — John P. Ginley
A-255-12 — Joyce & Alisha Harper
A-317-12 — The Cleveland Public
Library
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Maschke.

The City Record

20
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Denk and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
December 19, 2012
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 30, 2013
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, January 30, 2013, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:

Ord. No. 842-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of land on the
southwest side of Turney Road
between Warner Rd. and Macomb
Avenue as shown shaded on the
attached map to a Two Family Residential District and a ‘B’ Area District. (Map Change No. 2397, Sheet
Number 6).
Ord. No. 843-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of land on the south side
of the intersection of Warner Road
and Turney Road as shown shaded
on the attached map to Open Space
and Recreation (Map Change No.
2396, Sheet Number 6).
Ord. No. 844-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands located on the east
side of Warner Road south of Turney Road to Grand Division Avenue
from General Retail to Local Retail
(Map Change No. 2398, Sheet Number 6).
Ord. No. 1085-12.
By Council Member Miller.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land on the north side of
Coit Road between E. 140th Street
and E. 141 Street to Residence Office
(Map Change No. 2404; Sheet No. 7).

Ord. No. 1401-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating
Immaculate
Conception
Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1402-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Judge Jean Murrell
Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller
Park as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1403-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating North Presbyterian Church
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1404-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Sidney Hillman Memorial Building (Amalgamated Clothing
Workers Union of America), also
known as the Norma Herr Women’s
Center, as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1419-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the northeast corner of E. 63rd Street and Waterman
Avenue from Two Family Residential to Open Space and Recreation
(Map Change Number 2406).
Ord. No. 1420-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the north side of
Regent Road and south side of Temple Avenue from Two Family Residential or Semi-Industry and a ‘2’
Height District to an Open Space
and Recreation Use District and a
‘1’ Height District (Map Change
Number 2407).
Ord. No. 1424-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land fronting on Engel
Avenue northeasterly from Broadway Avenue to Two Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Map
Change Number 2411).
Ord. No. 1425-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of land fronting
on the north side of Ovington
Avenue between E. 65 St. and E. 66
St. Two Family Residential and a
‘B’ Area District (Map Change Number 2412).
Ord. No. 1461-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of land located
on the northeast side of Broadway
Avenue between Wire Avenue and
Jones Road to Local Retail Business
District and a ‘B’ Area District (Map
Change Number 2417).
Ord. No. 1462-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the east side of
E.
49th
Street
south
of
Chard
Avenue to Two Family Residential
(Map Change Number 2424).
Ord. No. 1463-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of land located
on the south side of Morgan Avenue

60

January 16, 2013
and on
Road to
and a
Change

the north side of Regent
Residence Industry District
‘1’ Height District (Map
Number 2418).

Ord. No. 1464-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District and Height District of lands
located between E. 55 St. and E. 49th
Street
known
as
Morabito
Site
shown on the attached map to SemiIndustry and a ‘3’ Height District
(Map Change Number 2420).
Ord. No. 1465-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the north side of
Dolloff Road at its intersection with
Barkwill Avenue to approximately
E. 55 St. as shown on the attached
map to Local Retail Business District (Map Change Number 2421).
Ord. No. 1466-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
bounded by Blanche Avenue, E. 55th
Street, Ackley Road, Mound Avenue
and E. 53 St. as shown shaded on
the attached maps to Two Family
Residential, a ‘B’ Area District and
a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change
Number 2422).
Ord. No. 1467-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of lands located on the east
side of E. 55th Street at Lufkin
Avenue as shown shaded on the
attached map to Multi-Family Residential District (Map Change Number 2426).
Ord. No. 1470-12.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of land on the
south
side
of
Morgan
Avenue
between at E. 68th Street to E. 75th
Street to Two Family Residential
and a 1 Height District (Map
Change Number 2413).
Ord. No. 1471-12.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height District of lands on
the north and south sides of Broadway from I77 to Marble Avenue and
Union Avenue from E. 65 St. to E.
82nd St. is changed to a Local Retail
Business District, a ‘C’ Area District
and a ‘2’ Height District as shown
on the attached maps (Map Change
Number 2416).
Ord. No. 1594-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating
University
Circle
United
Methodist Church (formerly known
as Epworth-Euclid Church) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1595-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Sarah Redman Apartments as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 1596-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Park Lane Villa as a Cleveland Landmark.

January 16, 2013
Ord. No. 1597-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating
Judson
Manor
(formerly
known as Wade Park Manor) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
January 16, 2013 and January 23, 2013

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
NO BIDS

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 16-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal
of Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the
use of low-income housing tax credits
for new construction of Aspen Place
apartments on Lorain Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates housing credits for affordable housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
proposing to construct 34 affordable
apartments in a three story mixed-use
building located on Lorain Avenue at
West 61st Street, Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, 100% of these homes will
be affordable to families with
incomes at or below 60% of the area
median income and no housing units
will be market rate; and
Whereas, 10% of these housing
units will be affordable to households
whose annual income is at or below
30% of the area median income; and
Whereas, the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization’s proposal will include retail on
the ground floor and will be built on
vacant land currently owned by the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, within the nationally
renowned EcoVillage and will serve
as a prime example of transit-oriented
development and spur additional private
investment
along
Lorain
Avenue; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
declares its support of the proposal of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for the use
of low-income housing tax credits for
new construction of Aspen Place
apartments on Lorain Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the
Executive
Director
of
the
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 17-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal
of Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the
use of low-income housing tax credits
for the preservation of three apartment buildings on Detroit Avenue in
Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates housing credits for affordable housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
proposing to preserve and rehabilitate 45 units of affordable housing in
3 separate apartment buildings located on Detroit Avenue: the Kennedy

61

21
Building at 6425 Detroit Avenue;
Muirville Apartments at 8001-05
Detroit Avenue; and Detroit Chateau
at 7918 Detroit Avenue; and; and
Whereas, 100% of these homes will
be affordable to families with
incomes at or below 60% of the area
median income and no housing units
will be market rate; and
Whereas, at least 50% of these
housing units will be affordable to
households whose annual income is at
or below 50% of the area median
income; and
Whereas, 10% of these housing
units will be affordable to households
whose annual income is at or below
30% of the area median income; and
Whereas, the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization’s proposal will make major capital improvements to the buildings and
each unit will receive approximately
$50,000 worth of improvements; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
declares its support of the proposal of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for the use
of low-income housing tax credits for
the preservation of three apartment
buildings on Detroit Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Executive Director of the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 18-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the proposal
of Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the
use of low-income housing tax credits
for rehabilitation of the TemplinBradley Company building at 5700
Detroit Avenue.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates housing credits for affordable housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
proposing to rehabilitate and adapt
the Templin-Bradley Company building which is a vacant warehousing
facility, into 30 mixed-income housing
units at 5700 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, 10% of the units will be
affordable to individuals or families
whose incomes are at or below 30% of
the area median income; and
Whereas, 10% of the units will be
affordable to individuals or families

22
whose incomes are at or below 35% of
the area median income; and
Whereas, 30% of the units will be
affordable to individuals or families
whose incomes are at or below 60% if
the area median income; and
Whereas, 50% of the units will be
market rate; and
Whereas, the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization’s proposal is a 7.75 million dollar
proposal that will preserve the historic structure and provide a much
needed anchor at the eastern gateway
of the Gordon Square Arts District;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
declares its support of the proposal of
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for the use
of low-income housing tax credits for
rehabilitation of the Templin-Bradley
Company building at 5700 Detroit
Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Executive Director of the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 19-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution declaring
this Council’s support of the Cleveland Housing Network Inc.’s application to the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency for low-income housing tax
credits for the Slavic Village Green
Homes I project.
Whereas, each year the Ohio Housing Finance Agency allocates lowincome housing credits for affordable
housing developments throughout
Ohio using a competitive proposal
process; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain affordable housing in Cleveland’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, Slavic Village Green
Homes I will consist of a mix of substantially rehabilitated single-family
homes and the construction of new
single family homes in the Slavic Village neighborhood, which is one of
the six Strategic Investment Initiative areas; and
Whereas, the Slavic Village Green
Homes I project will strengthen and
support the existing housing investment within the Slavic Village neighborhood, including Opportunity Housing, a for-sale market rate project,
Cleveland Green Homes, Cleveland
Green Homes East, Cleveland Green
Homes II, Cleveland NSP Homes I,
and Cleveland Green Homes III; and

The City Record
Whereas, Slavic Village is nationally recognized as the epicenter of the
national home mortgage foreclosure
crisis that continues to hit Ohio, and
in particular, the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, working together for
over 30 years, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. and its non-profit development partners and the City of Cleveland have demonstrated the ability to
use tax credits to leverage local
resources and complete successful
projects that meet community development objectives concerning vacant
properties and provide needed affordable housing to low-income families;
and
Whereas, in the current environment of large numbers of vacant single family homes, a weak homeownership market, and an increasing
poverty rate, this tool is needed more
than ever; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
remains committed to a continued
partnership with the Cleveland Housing Network Inc. and the development
of Slavic Village Green Homes I project, as we work together to address
the foreclosure crisis and meet the
needs of our low income families for
decent affordable housing; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Cleveland Housing Network
Inc.’s application to the Ohio Housing
Finance Agency for low-income housing tax credits for the Slavic Village
Green Homes I project.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Robert S. Curry,
Executive Director, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 31-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 15707 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Dolgen Midwest, LLC, DBA
Dollar General Store #13729, 15707 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
Permanent Number 22348151420; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordi-

62

January 16, 2013
nances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General Store
#13729, 15707 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
22348151420; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 32-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D1 and D2 Liquor Permit to 6816 Superior Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit from Margaret W. Foxworth,
DBA Johnnies South of the Border,
5803 Outhwaite Avenue, 1st floor and
partial basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 2861689 to
Margaret W. Foxworth, DBA Johnnies South of the Border, 6816 Superior Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 28616890001; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high

January 16, 2013
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1 and D2 Liquor
Permit from Margaret W. Foxworth,
DBA Johnnies South of the Border,
5803 Outhwaite Avenue, 1st floor and
partial basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 2861689 to
Margaret W. Foxworth, DBA Johnnies South of the Border, 6816 Superior Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 28616890001; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 33-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at 11609
Miles Road and repealing Resolution
No. 1139-12 objecting to said renewal.

The City Record
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to 11609
Miles Road by Resolution No. 1139-12
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to Habibi,
Inc., DBA Frank’s Marathon, 11609
Miles Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 3479133 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1139-12, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Res. No. 34-13.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill Road and repealing Resolution No. 1486-12, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 2603 Woodhill
Road by Resolution No. 1486-12 adopted by the Council on October 15, 2012;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Mos Woodhill Deli,
Inc., 2603 Woodhill Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, Permanent No. 6192207, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1486-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

63

23
Res. No. 35-13.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A, D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3194 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement, and repealing
Resolution No. 1032-12 objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D1, D2, D3, D3A, D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 3194 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement by Resolution No.
1032-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A, D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
to 2109 Tate, Inc., DBA Teri O’s
Lounge, 3194 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 9116320005
be and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1139-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

Ord. No. 20-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Ordinance No. 1642-12, passed December 3, 2012, relating to Day Care Center fees, applications, inspections and
contagious disease notification, to
repeal existing Sections 227.03, 227.04,
227.05, 227.33, 227.34 and 227.35.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 164212, passed December 3, 2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1a. That existing Sections
227.03, 227.04, 227.05, 227.33, 227.34 and
227.35 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 924-09, passed August 5,
2009, are repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

24
Ord. No. 21-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
GDS Associates, Inc. for professional
services necessary for resource beneficial use analysis and power supply
plan for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with GDS Associates, Inc. for professional services
necessary for resource beneficial use
analysis and power supply plan for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power on the basis of its proposal
dated December 12, 2012, for the
Department of Public Utilities. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 58 SF 001, Request No.
RQN 2005, RL 2012-069.
Section 2. That the contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
terms and conditions as the Director
deems necessary, including a provision requiring the contractor to comply with federal equal employment
opportunity (“EEO”) standards.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2013.
Effective January 7, 2013.

Ord. No. 22-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of the Harvard Avenue bridge
over Wheeling & Lake Erie Railroad
Company railroad just west of East
103rd Street; authorizing the Director
of Capital Projects to enter into contracts with the State of Ohio; and
causing payment to the State of Ohio
for the City’s share of the improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 74511, passed August 17, 2011, this Council authorized the City of Cleveland to
cooperate with the Director of Transportation for the rehabilitation of the
Harvard Avenue bridge over Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway Company
railroad just west of East 103rd Street
(the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by
assuming and bearing one hundred
percent (100%) of the entire cost of
the Improvement, less the amount of
Federal-aid NOACA funds set aside by
the Director of Transportation for the
financing of this Improvement from
funds allocated by the Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department
of Transportation, and further, the
City agrees to assume and bear one
hundred percent (100%) of the cost of

The City Record
Preliminary Engineering, excluding
in-house preliminary engineering
charges incurred by the State, and
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $484,184.00, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the legislation proposing cooperating and
has caused to be made plans and specifications and an estimate of costs
and expense for the Improvement and
has transmitted copies of the same to
this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed
with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with the State and/or their
pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the
Project and to enter into contracts
with the Director of Transportation
necessary to complete the Improvement. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
empowered to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 3. (a) That the City shall, at
its own expense, make all removals
and/or relocations of publicly-owned
utilities which do not comply with the
reimbursement provisions of the
ODOT Utilities Manual. Publiclyowned facilities which do comply
with the reimbursement provisions of
the ODOT Utilities Manual will be
removed and/or relocated at project
expense, exclusive of betterments.
(b) The removals and/or relocation
of all utilities shall be done in such a
manner as not to interfere with the
operation of the contractor constructing the Improvement and that the
utility removals and/or relocations
shall be approved by the State and
performed in accordance with the provisions of the ODOT Construction and
materials Specifications.
Section 4. That on completion of the
Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance; and
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the State and hold
the right-of-way inviolate for public
highway purposes and permit no
signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands, or other private installations
within the limits of the right-of-way.
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;

64

January 16, 2013
(e) Regulate parking in accordance with Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code, unless otherwise controlled by City ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to transmit
to the State three (3) certified copies
of this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect, and it shall become the
basis
for
proceeding
with
the
Improvement.
Section 6. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546, 52 SF 001 and 54 SF 001, RQS 0103,
RL 2012-194.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2013.
Effective January 7, 2013.

Ord. No. 30-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1651-12,
passed November 19, 2012 that authorizes the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
for the professional services necessary to provide for implementation of
an operations and sustainability plan
for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1651-12, passed November
19, 2012 is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Council President is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
(“Consultant”) for the professional
services necessary to provide for the
implementation of an operations and
sustainability plan for Cleveland
City Council, including the services
set forth in Consultant’s 2013 Statement of Work and those services as
may be directed by the Clerk of
Council or her designee. This agreement shall be entered into as of January 1, 2013 and shall be for a term
of one year, concluding December
31, 2013.
The agreement shall be certified
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$66,000.00 from fund 01, dept. 0101,
subfund 001, and object code 6320.
Section 2. That the existing Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1651-12, passed
November 19, 2012 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2013.
Effective January 8, 2013.

The City Record

January 16, 2013

25

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.

Monday, January 14, 2013
9:30 a.m.

Tuesday, January 15, 2013
9:30 a.m.

Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Dow,
Keane,
Polensek,
Pruitt,
Authorized
Absence:
Sweeney.
Cleveland, K. Johnson.

Community and Economic Development

Committee:

Present:

Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;

perman,

Cummins,

Miller,

Pruitt,
Zone.
Absence: Westbrook.

J.

Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Mitchell, Westbrook.
Wednesday, January 16, 2013
10:00 a.m.

Bran-

catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cim2:00 p.m.

1:30 p.m.

Johnson,

Authorized

Aviation and Transportation Committee:
Present:
Keane,
Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley. Authorized Absence: Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1651-12 — Colbalt Group, Inc. — Operations and Sustainability
Plan (O 30-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Rate Swap and Hedge Agreements — Finance Department (O 69-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

Appreciation
Adams, Kathleen (R 106-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Alhambra Road, 801, (Ward 11) — Johnnie Benson, owner — appeal adopted on
1/2/13 (Doc. A-245-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 2704, (Ward 14) — Cleveland Public Library, owner — appeal adopted on
1/2/13 (Doc. A-317-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Road, 480, (Ward 10) — Annette Scott, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-206-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Earlwood Road, 13705, (Ward 10) — Allan E. Bryson, owner — appeal adopted on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-251-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 142nd Street, 4309, (Ward 1) — Sabrina Sutton, owner — appeal adopted on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-250-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th Street, 3291, (Ward 5) — Willie R. Townes, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-263-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2531, (Ward 5) — Joyce Harper and Alisha Harper, owners — appeal
adopted on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-255-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 59th Street, 3695, (Ward 12) — Charles Sogbesan, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-259-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street, 2980, (Ward 5) — Ferrell Okie Lee, (Deceased), c/o Artistine Beavers
Cunningham, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-261-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Road, 721, (Ward 10) — Leon Fletcher, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-260-12)
Hague Avenue, 6801, (Ward 15) — Rosetta M. Wyar, owner — appeal adopted on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-248-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hague Avenue, 6803, (Ward 15) — Rosetta M. Wyar, owner — appeal adopted on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-247-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Idarose Avenue, 14007, (Ward 10) — Andre Williams, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Road, 3652, (Ward 12) — Maxies E. Morrell, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-257-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 16015, (Ward 11) — CNL APF Partners, LP, owner — appeal resolved on
1/2/13 (Doc. A-264-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lotus Drive, 16901, (Ward 1) — Pam Finch, owner — appeal resolved on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-254-12) .
Mead Avenue, 4962, (Ward 5) — Patricia Otloski and Wanda Otloski, owners — appeal
resolved on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-258-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Avenue, 9300, (Ward 6) — Cuyahoga County (Juvenile Detention Center), owner —
appeal adopted on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-215-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 93rd Street, 2125, (Ward 16) — John P. Ginley, owner — appeal adopted on 1/2/13
(Doc. A-252-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodlawn Avenue, 1878, (Ward 9) — Khao Dane Nguyen and Diana Diem Ly, owners —
appeal adopted on 1/2/13 (Doc. A-244-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

65

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

The City Record

26

January 16, 2013

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Rook Circle, 17601 (Ward 10) — PPN 117-22-037 — William and Vivian Kirkland per Ord.
848-11 (BOC Res. 26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Control — Finance Department
Computer hardware, software, printers, accessories, parts and supplies —
approve subcontractor — Contract #RCD2012*15 (BOC Res. 23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Geographic Information System (city-wide) program Accela software maintenance — per C.O.
Sec. 181.102(b) to True Point Solutions, LLC (BOC Res. 24-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Rook Circle, 17601 (Ward 10) — PPN 117-22-037 — William and Vivian Kirkland per Ord.
848-11 (BOC Res. 26-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Tree planting — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Geographic Information System (city-wide) program Accela software maintenance — per C.O.
Sec. 181.102(b) to True Point Solutions, LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 24-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Tree planting — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Computer hardware, software, printers, accessories, parts and supplies —
approve subcontractor — Contract #RCD2012*15 — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 23-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Arnold Avenue, 3914, (Ward 14) — Litsandra Mulero, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/14/13 (Cal. 12-213). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brooklyn Avenue, 4019-21, (Ward 13) — Diane Stiver, owner — appeal heard on 1/14/13
(Cal. 12-221) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Avenue, 6555, (Ward 5) — Hemingway at 6555 LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/14/13 (Cal. 12-184) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carroll Avenue, 3204, (Ward 3) — Scott Maloney, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/14/13 (Cal. 12-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2276, (PPN 103-24-084), (Ward 5) — Fatima Lange, owner — appeal to be
heard on 1/28/13 (Cal. 12-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3675, (Ward 12) — Mosinski Funeral Homes, Inc., owner —
appeal postponed to 2/25/13 on 1/14/13 (Cal. 12-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Road, 1170, (Ward 10) — 1170 Ivanhoe LLC, owner and JJAK Mulch Services, LLC,
John Hirko, prospective tenant — appeal postponed to 3/11/13 on 1/14/13 (Cal. 12-220) . . . .
Pearl Road, 4455, (Ward 13) — Matthew Fuchs, owner — appeal postponed to 4/1/13 on
1/14/13 (Cal. 12-207). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 5401, (Ward 8) — Raj Patel, owner — appeal postponed to 3/4/13 on
1/14/13 (Cal. 12-218). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street, 3432, (Ward 17) — Kari Bast-Payne, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 1/14/13 (Cal. 12-210) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 38th Street, 4250, (Ward 13) — George Caraman, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/14/13 (Cal. 12-211). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2170, (Ward 3) — Victor Selig, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/14/13 (Cal. 12-219) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bellaire Road, 12905, (Ward 17) — Sameer Shann, owner — appeal to be heard on
1/28/13 (Cal. 12-209). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Avenue, 8220, (Ward 6) — PNC Bank, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/28/13
(Cal. 12-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th Street, 2277, (PPN 104-24-063), (Ward 5) — Farid Elabed and Fatima Lange,
owners — appeal to be heard on 1/28/13 (Cal. 12-234). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2256, (PPN 103-24-080), (Ward 5) — Elabed, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 1/28/13 (Cal. 12-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2256, (PPN 103-24-081), (Ward 5) — Elabed, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 1/28/13 (Cal. 12-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11401, (Ward 9) — AJAPPJR Uptown 2, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/28/13
(Cal. 12-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

66

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

January 16, 2013

The City Record

27

Bonds
Airport System Revenue Bonds (O 64-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Bridges
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (Ward 03) (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge — State of Ohio (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Building and Housing Department
Hussain, Navid — Oath of Office — Commissioner — Construction & Permitting — Building and
Housing Department (F 82-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Capital Projects
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (Ward 03) (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge — State of Ohio (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

City Planning Commission
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts (Ward 12) (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts
(Ward 12) (O 1461-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District (Ward 10) (O 1085-12) . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1462-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward 12)
(O 1464-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast Corner) — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1419-12) . .
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward 12) (O 1424-12) . . .
Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — Grant — Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation & Pew Charitable Trusts (O. 67-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District (Ward 02) (O 843-12) . . . . . . . . .
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1402-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1597-12) . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts
(Ward(S) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North Side) — Change Use and Height Districts (Ward 12)
(O 1463-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Olivet Church of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN. 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 68-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts (Ward 12)
(O 1425-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 —
PPN 119-20-001 / 022 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regent Road (North Side) and Temple Avenue (South Side) — Change Use District (Ward 12)
(O 1420-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 1595-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts (Ward 02)
(O 842-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District (Ward 02) (O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

60
60
60
60

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

60
60
60
60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Clerk of Council
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1651-12 — Colbalt Group, Inc. — agreement — Operations and
Sustainability Plan (O 30-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Cleveland Housing Network
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing
Finance Agency (Ward 12) (R 19-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

67

The City Record

28

January 16, 2013

Cleveland Public Power
Utilities Department — professional services — contracts — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Codified Ordinances
Amend Ord. No. 1642-12 — Day Care Center Fees, Applications, Inspections and Contagious
Disease Notification — Health Department (O 20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Communications
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA — Aspen Place (Ward 15) (F 70-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA -Templin-Bradley Co. Loft (Ward 15) (F 71-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA — Historic Detroit Ave. Apartments (Ward 15) (F 72-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

Condolences
Cousins, Jr., Arnold (R 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Cummings, Anita Paulette (R 98-13). . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp (R 93-13) . . . . . .
Green, Dr. Wanda Jean (R 102-13). . . . . . .
Harley, Roy “ Dutch” (R 101-13) . . . . . . . . .
Howard, Ralph (R 99-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kilbane, Jack (R 107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lobins, Maxine (R 108-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long, Shirley Ann (R 95-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shuckahosee, Elaine Frances (R 100-13) .
Wilcox, Ada Pearl (R 96-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woods, Deacon Roosevelt C. (R 97-13) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44
44

Congratulations
Cox, Reverend Ian F. (R 104-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — 80th Anniversary (R 103-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Loftus, Chief Greg (R 105-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Contracts
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (Ward 03) (O 65-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — Grant — Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation & Pew Charitable Trusts (O. 67-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Utilities Department — professional services — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2012 — Grant — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Law Department (O 66-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — 80th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 103-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received — OHFA — Aspen Place (Ward 15) (F 70-13) . . . . . . .
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received — OHFA — Historic Detroit Ave. Apartments
(Ward 15) (F 72-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received — OHFA -Templin-Bradley Co. Loft
(Ward 15) (F 71-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments
(Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs.
(Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. Of Templin —
Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15) (R 18-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

Fees
Amend Ord. No. 1642-12 — Day Care Center Fees, Applications, Inspections and Contagious
Disease Notification — Health Department (O 20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

68

January 16, 2013

The City Record

29

Finance Department
Airport System Revenue Bonds (O 64-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Rate Swap and Hedge Agreements (O 69-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Refunding Stadium Cop’s (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Fire Division
Burchak, II, Erik G. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Division of Fire — Safety Department
(F 79-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Vargo, Jr., Ronald A. — Oath of Office -Captain — Division of Fire — Safety Department
(F 80-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Zywiec, Bryan J. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Division of Fire — Safety
Department (F 81-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Grants
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2012 — Criminal Justice Services Agency — Cuyahoga
County — Law Department (O 66-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Cuyahoga County 2012 Community Recycling Grant — Public Works (F 87-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Health Impact Assessment Capacity Building Program — Robert Wood Johnson Foundation &
Pew Charitable Trusts (O 67-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Health Department
Amend Ord. No. 1642-12 — Day Care Center Fees, Applications, Inspections and Contagious
Disease Notification (O 20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Landmark Commission
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1402-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Olivet Church of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN. 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 08) (O 68-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 —
PPN 119-20-001 / 022 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 08) (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1595-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. 60
. 60

. 61

. 50
. 60

. 60
. 60
. 60
. 60

Law Department
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2012 — Grant — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Cuyahoga County (O 66-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Lease Agreement
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Liquor Permits
Euclid Ave., 1438 — new application (Ward 03) (F 88-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1938 — transfer of liquor license application (Ward 08) (F 89-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave., 8905 — stock ownership application (Ward 16) (F 92-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 11609 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1139-12 (Ward 02) (R 33-13).
Pearl Rd., 4475 — stock ownership application (Ward 13) (F 91-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15707 — objection to issuance (Ward 11) (R 31-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Rd., 6816 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 07) (R 32-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15504 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 90-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3194 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1032-12
(Ward 14) (R 35-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1486-12
(Ward 04) (R 34-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

69

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

44
44
44
63
44
62
62
44

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

The City Record

30

January 16, 2013

Oath of Office
Burchak, II, Erik G. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Division of Fire — Safety Department
(F 79-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crespo, Magdaelena — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 76-13). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eggelmeyer, Elberth — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department
(F 77-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gissentaner, Samuel — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Recreation Department —
Public Works (F 85-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hussain, Navid — Oath of Office — Commissioner — Construction & Permitting — Building and
Housing Department (F 82-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Kim R. — Oath of Office — Interim Assistant Director — Public Works Department
(F 86-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ludrosky, John — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 73-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mokshefsky, William — Oath of Office — Sergeant — Police Division — Safety
Department (F 78-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scott, Randell T. — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Waste Collection — Public
Works Department (F 83-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Steckle, Jason — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 75-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Strollo, Robert — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 74-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thompson, Antionette — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Parking Facilities
Division — Public Works Department (F 84-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vargo, Jr., Ronald A. — Oath of Office -Captain — Division of Fire — Safety Department
(F 80-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zywiec, Bryan J. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Division of Fire — Safety
Department (F 81-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 44
. . . 44
. . . 44
. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 44
. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 44
. . . 44
. . . 44

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge — State of Ohio (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Ohio House Finance Agency
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
Templin-Bradley Co. Loft (Ward 15) (F 71-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
Historic Detroit Ave. Apartments (Ward 15) (F 72-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
Aspen Place (Ward 15) (F 70-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Aspen Place Apartments (Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Rehab. Of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15) (R 18-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits
(Ward 12) (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

Parking Facilities Division
Thompson, Antionette — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Public Works Department
(F 84-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Police Division
Crespo, Magdaelena — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 76-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eggelmeyer, Elberth — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department
(F 77-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ludrosky, John — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 73-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mokshefsky, William — Oath of Office — Sergeant — Police Division — Safety
Department (F 78-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Steckle, Jason — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 75-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Strollo, Robert — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division — Safety Department (F 74-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 43
. . . 43

Port Control Department
Airport System Revenue Bonds (O 64-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Professional Services
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1651-12 — Colbalt Group, Inc. — agreement — Operations and
Sustainability Plan (O 30-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Utilities Department — contracts — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

70

January 16, 2013

The City Record

31

Public Hearing (Notices)
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1461-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10) (O 1085-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning Commission — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1462-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts- City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1464-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1419-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1424-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts At Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1402-12) . . . .
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — Ppn 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — Designate As Landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North side) — Change Use and Height District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1463-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1425-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 —
PPN 119-20-001 / 022 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 08) (O 1596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regent Road (North side) and Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1420-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1595-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 842-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 1594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Public Works
Cuyahoga County 2012 Community Recycling Grant (F 87-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gissentaner, Samuel — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Recreation Department (F 85-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Kim R. — Oath Of Office — Interim Assistant Director — Public Works Department
(F 86-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merwin Ave., 1785 — Name The Skate Park — The “Crooked River Skate Park” (Ward 03) (O 63-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scott, Randell T. — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Waste Collection — Public Works
Department (F 83-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thompson, Antionette — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Parking Facilities Division —
Public Works Department (F 84-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. 43
. 44
. 44
. 52
. 44
. 44

Purchases
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Recreation And Properties Department
Gissentaner, Samuel — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Recreation Department —
Public Works (F 85-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

71

The City Record

32

January 16, 2013

Resolution of Support
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments (Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. Of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15)
(R 18-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (Ward 12) (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

Safety Department
Burchak, II, Erik G. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Division of Fire (F 79-13)
Crespo, Magdaelena — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division (F 76-13) . . . .
Eggelmeyer, Elberth — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division (F 77-13). . . .
Ludrosky, John — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division (F 73-13). . . . . . . . .
Mokshefsky, William — Oath of Office — Sergeant — Police Division (F 78-13) .
Steckle, Jason — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division (F 75-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Strollo, Robert — Oath of Office -Sergeant — Police Division (F 74-13) . . . . . . . . .
Vargo, Jr., Ronald A. — Oath of Office -Captain — Division of Fire (F 80-13) . . . .
Zywiec, Bryan J. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Division of Fire (F 81-13) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

43
43
43
43
43
43
43
44
44

Stadium
Refunding Stadium COP’S (O 27-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

State of Ohio
Final consent for the rehab of the Harvard Avenue Bridge (O 22-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Tax Credits
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA — Aspen Place (Ward 15) (F 70-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA -Templin-Bradley Co. Loft (Ward 15) (F 71-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA — Historic Detroit Ave. Apartments (Ward 15) (F 72-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments (Ward 15) (R 16-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (Ward 15) (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. Of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (Ward 15)
(R 18-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (Ward 12) (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

Utilities Department
Professional Services — contracts — GDS Associates, Inc. (O 21-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Ward 01
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Ward 02
Cummings, Anita Paulette -Condolence (R 98-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 11609 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1139-12 — liquor permit
(R 33-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 842-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . 44
. . . 44
. . . 60
. . . 63
. . . 60
. . . 60

Ward 03
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 615-12 — West 3rd St. Lift Bridge Repairs (O 65-13). . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1438 — new application — liquor permit (F 88-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harley, Roy “ Dutch” — Condolence (R 101-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merwin Ave., 1785 — Name The Skate Park — The “Crooked River Skate Park” (O 63-13) .

72

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

52
44
44
44
52

January 16, 2013

The City Record

33

Ward 04
Cousins, Jr., Arnold (R 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long, Shirley Ann (R 95-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1486-12 —
liquor permit (R 34-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Ward 05
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — 80th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 103-13) .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Ward 06
Cox, Reverend Ian F. — Congratulations (R 104-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Green, Dr. Wanda Jean — Condolence (R 102-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Ward 07
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Superior Rd., 6816 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 32-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

Ward 08
Euclid Ave., 1938 — transfer of liquor license application — liquor permit (F 89-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immaculate Conception Church, School, Rectory, and Accessory Buildings — PPN 104-07-030 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1401-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — East 105th St., 1626 — PPN
107-01-001 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1402-12). . . . . . . . . . . .
Judson Manor — East 107th St., 1886-1922 , Park Lane, N.E., 10604-26, Chester Ave.,
10623-27 — PPN 119-20-019 / 020/ 021/ 033 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (O 1597-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Olivet Church of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN. 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(O 68-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Presbyterian Church — Superior Ave., 4001-21 and East 40th St., 1451 — PPN 104-07-035 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Lane Villa — Park Lane, N.E., 10500-28 and East 105th St., 1887-1913 —
PPN 119-20-001 / 022 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1596-12) . .
Sarah Redman Apartments — East 99th St., 1269 — PPN 109-10-167 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 1595-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidney Hillman Memorial Building — Payne Ave., 2219-27 — PPN 102-25-014 / 033 / 044 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1404-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle United Methodist Church — East 107th St., 1905-29 and Chester Ave., 10725 —
PPN 119-20-028 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1594-12) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Ward 09
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Ward 10
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District
Commission (O 1085-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilcox, Ada Pearl — Condolence (R 96-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woods, Deacon Roosevelt C. — Condolence (R 97-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .

— City Planning
................
................
................
................

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

60
44
44
44

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

44
44
62
44

Ward 11
Adams, Kathleen — Appreciation (R 106-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15707 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 31-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15504 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 90-13)

73

.
.
.
.

The City Record

34

January 16, 2013

Ward 12
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1461-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd. and Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1465-12) .
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning Commission — City
Planning Commission (O 1462-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55 St. And E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1464-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1467-12) . . . .
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1419-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly From Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1424-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North Side) — Change Use and Height District — City Planning
Commission (O 1463-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1425-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regent Road (North side) And Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (O 1420-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shuckahosee, Elaine Frances — Condolence (R 100-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Green Homes I Project — CHN — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits — Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (R 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62

Ward 13
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Pearl Rd., 4475 — stock ownership application — liquor permit (F 91-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Ward 14
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
West 25th St., 3194 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1032-12 —
liquor permit (R 35-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Ward 15
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA — Aspen Place (F 70-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA -Templin-Bradley Co. Loft (F 71-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Received —
OHFA — Historic Detroit Ave. Apartments (F 72-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Aspen Place Apartments (R 16-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Detroit Ave. Apt. Bldgs. (R 17-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Low-Income Housing Tax Credits —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency — Rehab. Of Templin -Bradley Co. Bldg. (R 18-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Ward 16
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Howard, Ralph — Condolence (R 99-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave., 8905 — stock ownership application — liquor permit (F 92-13).
Shuckahosee, Elaine Frances — Condolence (R 100-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

44
44
44
44

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

44
44
44
44

Ward 18
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . .
Kilbane, Jack — Condolence (R 107-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loftus, Chief Greg — Congratulations (R 105-13) . . . . . .
Shuckahosee, Elaine Frances — Condolence (R 100-13) .

74

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

January 16, 2013

The City Record

35

Ward 19
Geis, Katherine Phillipp — Condolence (R 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Kilbane, Jack — Condolence (R 107-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Lobins, Maxine — Condolence (R 108-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Scott, Randell T. — Oath of Office — Interim Commissioner — Waste Collection — Public
Works Department (F 83-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Zoning
Blanche Ave., E. 55th St., Ackley Rd., Mound Ave. and E. 53 St. — Change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1466-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (Between Wire Ave. and Jones Rd.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1461-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave. (From I-77 to Marble Ave.) & Union Ave. (From E. 65 St. to E. 82nd St.) —
Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12)
(O 1471-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coit Rd. (Between E. 140th St. & E. 141 St.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10) (O 1085-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd. And Barkwill Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1465-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. (South of Chard Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning Commission — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1462-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55 St. and E. 49th St.(Morabito Site) — Change Use and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1464-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St. and Lufkin Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 12)
(O 1467-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 63rd St. and Waterman Ave. (Northeast corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1419-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engel Ave. (Northeasterly from Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1424-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intersection of Warner Rd. and Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 843-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. (Between E. 68th St. to E. 75th St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 05, 12) (O 1470-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Ave. and Regent Rd. (North Side) — Change Use and Height District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 1463-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ovington Ave. (Between E. 65 St. and E. 66 St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1425-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regent Road (North side) and Temple Avenue (South side) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 1420-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd. (Between Warner Rd. and Macomb Ave.) — Change Use and Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 842-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Rd. (South of) Turney Rd. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 02) (O 844-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

75

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

