The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Thirtieth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

21

Board of Control

21

Civil Service

24

Board of Zoning Appeals

24

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
25
Public Notice

27

Public Hearings

27

City of Cleveland Bids

27

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

28

Committee Meetings

31

Index

32

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Daryl W. McGinnis, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Charles J. Bauernschmidt – Courtroom 12A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5212

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY OCTOBER 28, 2013
The City Record

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Miller, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Cummins.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 28, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L.
Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Kevin J.
Kelley, Eugene R. Miller, Mamie J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, Martin J.
Sweeney, Jay Westbrook, Matthew
Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief of Education Monyka S.
Price,
Chief
of
Communications
Maureen Harper, Chief of Public
Affairs Natoya Walker-Minor, and
Directors Langhenry, Dumas, Smith,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Rybka, Southerington,
Nichols,
Brown,
Fumich,
Ambroz,
and
Acting
Directors
Vilkas and Daniely.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Reverend
Pamela
Pinkney,
NO
FEAR But God Fellowship Assembly,
Cleveland,
Ohio
(Ward
8).
Pledge of Allegiance.

1723

File No. 1460-13.
RE: #9115311 — Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3. 2301
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Old Brooklyn
Social Club and Patio, 2301 Broadview Road. (Ward 3). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1482-13—Daniel Marano.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1477-13—Rev.
Quincy, III.

James

P.

RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1478-13—Charles R. See.
Res. No. 1479-13—Imperial Avenue
Eleven — 4th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1480-13—Cleveland Culinary
Celebration
Week/Fabulous
Food Show.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1481-13—Elder Paul Carrington.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1463-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$4,830,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
cemetery facilities, buildings, structures and grounds and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate princi-

4
pal amount not to exceed Four Million Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars
($4,830,000)
(the
“Series 2013B-3 Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”);
and
Whereas, the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds is at least five years
and that the maximum maturity of
the Series 2013B-3 Bonds is 30 years,
a copy of which is contained in File
No. 1463-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
hereof that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2013B-3
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Four Million
Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars ($4,830,000) for the purpose of
providing funds to improve municipal
cemetery facilities, buildings, structures and grounds by constructing,
reconstructing, installing, enlarging,
renovating, and rehabilitating buildings, structures and grounds, including clearing, grading and excavating
land, reconstructing, installing, renovating, and rehabilitating septic system, drainage and sewer facilities,
installing access roadways including
any necessary bridges and culverts,
installing utility lines, laying out and
numbering burial plots, constructing
and reconstructing retaining walls,
gates and fences, acquiring and
installing fences, gates, signage,
waste receptacles and other fixtures,
and planting and landscaping, together with all necessary and incidental
appurtenances and the acquisition of
any required real estate and interests
in real estate, and to pay any capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013B3 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in

The City Record
Section  1 hereof. The Series 2013B-3
Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be issued
and secured under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
2008, between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on May 30, 2013 (the “Series 2013A
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2013B-3
Bonds and any additional bonds
issued under the Indenture are collectively referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.

1724

October 30, 2013
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013B3 Bonds. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds may
be issued in one or more series or subseries. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds may
be delivered only in book-entry form,
and if so delivered, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Indenture and the Fifth Supplement
identified in Section 7. The Series
2013B-3 Bonds shall be designated
“Cemeteries Improvement Bonds,
Series 2013B-3” or may contain such
other designation as provided in the
Certificate of Award identified below.
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Series 2013B-3 Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any whole multiple
thereof. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance. The Series
2013B-3 Bonds shall be signed by officials of the City in the manner set
forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013B3 Bonds and the sale of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the yield (determined in accordance with the arbitrage provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended) of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds shall not exceed seven per cent
(7.00%) per year. Interest on the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15, or such other dates specified in
the Certificate of Award (the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds shall be a date no later than
thirty (30) years from a date twelve
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of principal is made for the Series 2013B-3
Bonds, as set forth in the Certificate
of Award. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2013B-3 Bonds
or as term Series 2013B-3 Bonds
payable prior to stated maturity pursuant to sinking fund redemption
(the “Term Bonds”). The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be issued
as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Require-

October 30, 2013
ments”). If any of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100 percent of the
principal amount redeemed, plus
interest accrued to the redemption
date, on the Mandatory Redemption
Dates. The aggregate of the moneys
to be deposited with the Trustee for
payment of principal of and interest
on any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement).
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013B3 Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity, and (ii) for a
premium to be payable on the redemption of any Series 2013B-3 Bonds calculated in a manner to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment or calculated as a percentage in
excess of 100% of the principal
amount redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fifth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series
2013B-3 Bonds may be secured by a
Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held
by the Trustee under the Indenture.
The principal amount of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds may include provision
for funding the Debt Service Reserve
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds,
subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013B-3
Bonds. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2013B-3 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds (which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1), the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount plus

The City Record
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2013B-3 Bonds may
be redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to
cause a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
certificates,
financial
transcript
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013B-3 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be applied
as follows:
a. to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
b. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013B-3 Bonds as capitalized interest or as accrued interest
from their dated date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;

1725

5
c. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
d. to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapters 177
and 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
any original issue premium received
from the sale of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fifth Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013B-3
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds, defeasance of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds, and
other terms consistent with this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award
and approved by the Director of
Finance as not substantially adverse
to the City. The Fifth Supplement
shall be approved as to form by the
Director of Law. The determination
by the Director of Finance that the
provisions of the Fifth Supplement
are not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the Director’s signing of the Fifth
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Fifth
Supplement as may be necessary or
appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds for the purpose
set forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Four Million
Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars ($4,830,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The Notes, if sold as fixed rate obligations, shall bear interest at such rate,
not exceeding three percent (3.00%)
per year, and shall be payable on the
date or dates, as shall be determined
by the Director of Finance in the Note
Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature on
the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
unless the Director of Finance, based
on the advice of a financial advisor,
determines that it is in the best interest of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, that the
Notes not be redeemable prior to
maturity or that a premium be paid on
their prior redemption; shall be designated “Cemeteries Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise

6
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Note
Certificate of Award, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion of
the Notes to be obligations bearing
interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Note Certificate of Award the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the variable rate Notes shall be
determined; provided that the variable rate Notes shall not bear interest
at a rate in excess of Twenty-Five
percent (25.00%) per year. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
to be executed by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements, and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official

The City Record
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013B-3 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i) the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.

1726

October 30, 2013
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax- Exempt
Bonds to be and remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (B)
restrict the yield on investment property, (C) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(D) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(E) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
and any Notes is hereby authorized
(i) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the Series
2013B-3 Bonds and any Notes as the
City is permitted to or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer, (ii)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds and
any Notes and (iii) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Series 2013B-3
Bonds and any Notes, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2013B-3 Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit

October 30, 2013
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds or Notes from
one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013B-3 Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Fiscal Officer of the County of Cuya-

The City Record
hoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1464-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$3,660,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand
($3,660,000)
(the
“Series
Dollars
2013B-2 Bonds”) to finance the costs
of certain permanent improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and

1727

7
Whereas, the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds is at least five years
and that the maximum maturity of
the Series 2013B-2 Bonds is 25 years,
a copy of which is contained in File
No. 1464-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
hereof that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2013B-2
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Three Million
Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars
($3,660,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal parks
and recreation facilities by constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
installing, renovating, enlarging,
redeveloping and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, tracks, fields and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement, plazas, landscaping and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances
and the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real estate
and the demolition of any existing
buildings, structures, walkways and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013B2 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section  1 hereof. The Series 2013B-2
Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordi-

8
nance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be issued
and secured under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
2008, between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on May 30, 2013 (the “Series 2013A
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2013B-2
Bonds and any additional bonds
issued under the Indenture are collectively referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013B2 Bonds. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds may
be issued in one or more series or subseries. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds may
be delivered only in book-entry form,
and if so delivered, shall be registered

The City Record
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Indenture and the Fifth Supplement
identified in Section 7. The Series
2013B-2 Bonds shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement Bonds, Series 2013B-2”
or may contain such other designation as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Series
2013B-2 Bonds shall be issued in one
lot as fully registered Series 2013B-2
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any whole multiple thereof. The
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall be signed by officials of the City
in the manner set forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013B2 Bonds and the sale of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the yield (determined in accordance with the arbitrage provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended) of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds shall not exceed seven percent
(7.00%) per year; provided, however,
that if the Series 2013B-2 Bonds are
not Tax-Exempt Bonds (as defined
below), the yield shall not exceed
nine percent (9.00%) per year. Interest on the Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall
be payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15, or such other dates
specified in the Certificate of Award
(the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds shall be a date no later than
twenty-five (25) years from a date
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made for the Series 2013B2 Bonds, as set forth in the Certificate
of Award. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2013B-2 Bonds
or as term Series 2013B-2 Bonds
payable prior to stated maturity pursuant to sinking fund redemption
(the “Term Bonds”). The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be issued
as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pur-

1728

October 30, 2013
suant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement).
The Series 2013B-2 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013B2 Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity, and (ii) for a
premium to be payable on the redemption of any Series 2013B-2 Bonds calculated in a manner to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment or calculated as a percentage in
excess of 100% of the principal
amount redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fifth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series
2013B-2 Bonds may be secured by a
Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held
by the Trustee under the Indenture.
The principal amount of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds may include provision
for funding the Debt Service Reserve
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds,
subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013B-2
Bonds. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2013B-2 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds (which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1), the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal

October 30, 2013
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2013B-2 Bonds may
be redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to
cause a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
financial
transcript
certificates,
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013B-2 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be applied
as follows:
a. to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
b. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013B-2 Bonds as capitalized interest or as accrued interest
from their dated date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;
c. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any

The City Record
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
d. to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapters 177
and 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
any original issue premium received
from the sale of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fifth Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013B-2
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds, defeasance of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds, and
other terms consistent with this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award
and approved by the Director of
Finance as not substantially adverse
to the City. The Fifth Supplement
shall be approved as to form by the
Director of Law. The determination
by the Director of Finance that the
provisions of the Fifth Supplement
are not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the Director’s signing of the Fifth
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Fifth
Supplement as may be necessary or
appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds for the purpose
set forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($3,660,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The Notes, if sold as fixed rate obligations, shall bear interest at such rate,
not exceeding three percent (3.00%)
per year, and shall be payable on the
date or dates, as shall be determined
by the Director of Finance in the Note
Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature on
the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
unless the Director of Finance, based
on the advice of a financial advisor,
determines that it is in the best interest of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, that the
Notes not be redeemable prior to
maturity or that a premium be paid on
their prior redemption; shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation
Notes” or as otherwise provided in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be

1729

9
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system). The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983 of the Revised Code
shall apply to the Notes and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Note Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Notes to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Note Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest to
be borne by the variable rate Notes
shall be determined; provided that the
variable rate Notes shall not bear
interest at a rate in excess of TwentyFive percent (25.00%) per year. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into agreements in connection
with the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
to be executed by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements, and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to

10
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013B-2 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i) the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such

The City Record
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax- Exempt
Bonds to be and remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (B)
restrict the yield on investment property, (C) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(D) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(E) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
and any Notes is hereby authorized
(i) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the Series
2013B-2 Bonds and any Notes as the
City is permitted to or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer, (ii)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds and
any Notes and (iii) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Series 2013B-2
Bonds and any Notes, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2013B-2 Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the

1730

October 30, 2013
Series 2013B-2 Bonds or Notes from
one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013B-2 Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Fiscal Officer of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.

October 30, 2013
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1465-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$27,110,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities
for the discharge of governmental
functions and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed TwentySeven Million One Hundred and Ten
Thousand Dollars ($27,110,000) (the
“Series 2013B-1 Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”);
and

The City Record
Whereas, the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds is at least five years
and that the maximum maturity of
the Series 2013B-1 Bonds is 28 years,
a copy of which is contained in File
No. 1465-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
hereof that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2013B-1
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Twenty-Seven
Million One Hundred and Ten Thousand Dollars ($27,110,000) for the purpose of paying, or reimbursing the
City for, the costs of improving facilities for the discharge of governmental functions or facilities for services
otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare, including
acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, installing, renovating, enlarging
and otherwise improving buildings,
structures and other facilities in, of
and for City Hall, police stations,
including the 3rd District police station, fire stations, emergency medical
centers, service stations, waste collection, transfer and disposal facilities,
correctional facilities, health facilities, centers and other facilities
including certain improvements relating to a proposed County-owned convention center hotel, the provision of
necessary
fixtures,
furnishings,
equipment, information technology
hardware and software, utilities, site
improvements and appurtenances,
and to pay any capitalized interest
and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the securities, including all financing costs
within
the
meaning
of
Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013B1 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section  1 hereof. The Series 2013B-1
Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General

1731

11
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be issued
and secured under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
2008, between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on May 30, 2013 (the “Series 2013A
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2013B-1
Bonds and any additional bonds
issued under the Indenture are collectively referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013B1 Bonds. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds may
be issued in one or more series or sub-

12
series. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds may
be delivered only in book-entry form,
and if so delivered, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Indenture and the Fifth Supplement
identified in Section 7. The Series
2013B-1 Bonds shall be designated
“Public
Facilities
Improvement
Bonds, Series 2013B-1” or may contain
such other designation as provided in
the Certificate of Award identified
below. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
be issued in one lot as fully registered
Series 2013B-1 Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any whole multiple
thereof. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance. The Series
2013B-1 Bonds shall be signed by officials of the City in the manner set
forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013B1 Bonds and the sale of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the yield (determined in accordance with the arbitrage provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended) of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds shall not exceed seven per cent
(7.00%) per year; provided, however,
that if the Series 2013B-1 Bonds are
not Tax-Exempt Bonds (as defined
below), the yield shall not exceed
nine percent (9.00%) per year. Interest on the Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
be payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15, or such other dates
specified in the Certificate of Award
(the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds shall be a date no later than
twenty-eight (28) years from a date
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made for the Series 2013B1 Bonds, as set forth in the Certificate
of Award. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2013B-1 Bonds
or as term Series 2013B-1 Bonds
payable prior to stated maturity pursuant to sinking fund redemption
(the “Term Bonds”). The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be issued
as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013B-1

The City Record
Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement).
The Series 2013B-1 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013B1 Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity, and (ii) for a
premium to be payable on the redemption of any Series 2013B-1 Bonds calculated in a manner to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment or calculated as a percentage in
excess of 100% of the principal
amount redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fifth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series
2013B-1 Bonds may be secured by a
Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held
by the Trustee under the Indenture.
The principal amount of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds may include provision
for funding the Debt Service Reserve
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds,
subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013B-1
Bonds. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2013B-1 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds (which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1), the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of deliv-

1732

October 30, 2013
ery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2013B-1 Bonds may
be redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to
cause a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013B-1 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be applied
as follows:
a. to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
b. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013B-1 Bonds as capitalized interest or as accrued interest
from their dated date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;

October 30, 2013
c. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
d. to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapters 177
and 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
any original issue premium received
from the sale of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fifth Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013B-1
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds, defeasance of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds, and
other terms consistent with this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award
and approved by the Director of
Finance as not substantially adverse
to the City. The Fifth Supplement
shall be approved as to form by the
Director of Law. The determination
by the Director of Finance that the
provisions of the Fifth Supplement
are not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the Director’s signing of the Fifth
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Fifth
Supplement as may be necessary or
appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds for the purpose
set forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed TwentySeven Million One Hundred and Ten
Thousand Dollars ($27,110,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding three percent
(3.00%) per year, and shall be
payable on the date or dates, as shall
be determined by the Director of
Finance in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, unless the Director
of Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond

The City Record
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Note
Certificate of Award, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion of
the Notes to be obligations bearing
interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Note Certificate of Award the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the variable rate Notes shall be
determined; provided that the variable rate Notes shall not bear interest
at a rate in excess of Twenty-Five
percent (25.00%) per year. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
to be executed by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements, and to authorize the use

1733

13
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013B-1 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i) the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.

14
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax- Exempt
Bonds to be and remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (B)
restrict the yield on investment property, (C) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(D) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(E) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
and any Notes is hereby authorized
(i) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the Series
2013B-1 Bonds and any Notes as the
City is permitted to or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer, (ii)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds and
any Notes and (iii) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Series 2013B-1
Bonds and any Notes, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2013B-1 Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit

The City Record
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds or Notes from
one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013B-1 Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Fiscal Officer of the County of Cuya-

1734

October 30, 2013
hoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1466-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Capital Projects to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 between the
City of Cleveland and UCAA LIMITED, an Ohio limited liability company, designee of The Finch Group,
Inc. relating to the redevelopment of
a portion of the Upper Chester Target Area.
Whereas, under Contract No. CT
8006, NF 2013-016, the Directors of
Community Development and Capital Projects entered into a develop-

October 30, 2013
ment agreement with UCAA LIMITED, an Ohio limited liability company, designee of The Finch Group,
Inc., regarding the redevelopment of
a portion of the Upper Chester Target Area; and
Whereas, the parties wish to
amend the agreement to incorporate
project changes regarding timing,
location, and land use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Capital
Projects are authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. CT
8006, NF 2013-016 between the City of
Cleveland and UCAA LIMITED, an
Ohio
limited
liability
company,
designee of The Finch Group, Inc.
relating to the redevelopment of a
portion of the Upper Chester Target
Area. The amendment shall include,
but not be limited to, an updated
description of the project phases and
a revised project development map
within the original target area. An
updated executive summary and
legal descriptions for all permanent
parcel numbers included under this
amended agreement have been placed
in File No. 1697-12-C [duplicate in File
No. 1466-13-A], including the legal
description of Permanent Parcel No.
119-09-107.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Capital Projects, City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1467-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more concession
agreements with DTG Operations,
Inc. dba Dollar Rent A Car and
Thrifty Rental Car to operate a car
rental service located off airport
property and to impose and collect
transportation and privilege fees for
the use of City shuttle services for
the traveling public, for a period
ending January 31, 2015, with a five
year option to renew, exercisable
legislative
additional
through
authority.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 69908, passed December 8, 2008, and
Board of Control Resolution No. 7-10,
adopted January 10, 2010, the Director of Port Control entered into a
Lease by Way of Concession with
DTG Operations, Inc. dba Dollar
Rent a Car and Thrifty Rent a Car
(“DTG”), beginning February 1, 2010
to operate and maintain a car rental
agency at the Consolidated Rental
Car Facility (“RAC”) at Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport
(“CHIA”); and

The City Record
Whereas, in November 2012, The
Hertz
Corporation
(“Hertz”)
acquired DTG and to satisfy antitrust concerns, Hertz and DTG
agreed to certain terms approved by
anti-trust regulators; and
Whereas, as a part of those terms,
Hertz and DTG agreed to relinquish
DTG’s right to operate on several
airport-owned locations around the
country, which included the City of
Cleveland’s RAC; and
Whereas, DTG desires to continue
to
provide
car
rental
services,
including shuttle services, for the
travelling public; and
Whereas, the City desires to enter
into one or more concession agreements with DTG to provide car
rental and shuttle services to the
travelling public, mirrored under the
same terms and conditions as the
agreements entered into under the
authority of Ordinance No. 699-08 by
other car rental agencies located at
the RAC; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into one or
more concession agreements with
DTG to provide car rental and shuttle
services to the travelling public.
Applicable terms and conditions of
the concession agreements shall be
the same as the applicable terms and
conditions of the agreements entered
into under the authority of Ordinance
No. 699-08 by other car rental agencies
located at the RAC.
Section 2. That, similar to the agreements entered into under the authority of Ordinance No. 699-08 by other car
rental agencies located at the RAC,
the concession agreement or agreements with DTG may provide for a
remote rental car shuttle system for
pick-up and drop-off of customers
between CHIA and their off-site location, including any applicable support services. CHIA is authorized to
collect a transportation fee charge
from DTG for the use of the rental car
shuttle bus services to be fixed annually by the Director of Port Control or
otherwise provided in the Concession
Agreement.
Section 3. That DTG shall pay a
monthly privilege fee to CHIA of 10%
of their gross revenues received from
performing services either to or from
CHIA less all revenue that DTG can
attribute to services provided for
local customers. Under the concession
agreement with DTG, CHIA shall bill
DTG for any outstanding gross revenue percentage fee not received
between May 15, 2013 and execution of
the agreement.
Section 4. The term of the concession agreement or agreements with
DTG shall be for a period beginning
May 15, 2013 and ending January 31,
2015, with one five-year option to
renew, exercisable through additional legislative authority, which is similar to the agreements entered into
under the authority of Ordinance No.
699-08 by other car rental agencies
located at the RAC.
Section 5. That the concession
agreement or agreements shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.

1735

15
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1468-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2012-076 with Airports Council International to provide customer service satisfaction
surveys, data collection, reporting,
benchmarking and related services.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 681-11, passed July 20,
2011, as amended by Ordinance No.
1683-11, December 5, 2011, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract No. PS 2012-076 with Airports
Council International to provide customer service satisfaction surveys,
data collection, reporting, benchmarking and related services; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1683-11
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No. PS
2012-076 for an additional year with
Airport Council International to provide customer service satisfaction
surveys, data collection, reporting,
benchmarking and related services
for the Department of Port Control.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 1683-11 to exercise
this option. (RQS 3001, RL 2013-155).
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to pay Airport
Council International for services
performed under Contract No. PS 2012076 from funds Appropriated in Budget Years 2013 and 2014 for this purpose.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1469-13.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Office of
Equal Opportunity to enter into a
grant agreement with the Greater
Cleveland Partnership to contribute
to the costs of a labor demand study
for residents of the City of Cleveland.

16
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Office of Equal Opportunity is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with the Greater Cleveland Partnership to contribute to the costs of the
Greater Cleveland Partnership contracting with a consultant to conduct
a labor demand study for residents of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$25,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 10 SF 082, RQS 0113, RL 2013-154.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Finance.
Ord. No. 1470-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for the City’s
use located at the southeast corner
of Harvard Road and Mill Pond
Drive in the Village of Highland
Hills to PROPSTONE, LLC to construct a behavioral hospital for mental health and substance abuse
patients.
Whereas, under City of Cleveland
Ordinance No. 1235-95, passed October 23, 1995, and under the Village
of Highland Hills Ordinance Nos.
1995-20, passed August 14, 1995 and
Ordinance No. 1995-28, passed December, 13, 1995, both the City of Cleveland and the Village of Highland
Hills entered into a Joint Economic
Development
Zone
Agreement
(“JEDZA”) affecting the development of approximately 80 acres of
land located in the Village of Highland Hills and known as the Cleveland Enterprise Park; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Works has requested the sale of the
City-owned
property
to
PROPSTONE, LLC (the “Redeveloper”) no
longer needed for the City’s use and
located at the southeast corner of
Harvard Road and Mill Pond Drive
in the Village of Highland Hills so
that Redeveloper may construct a
behavioral
hospital
for
mental
health and substance abuse patients
at that location; and
Whereas, the project has been
reviewed and approved by the Village of Highland Hills as meeting
the design intent and final development plan of the JEDZA Joint Economic Development Zone Agreement
between the City of Cleveland and
Village of Highland Hills; and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it
is found and determined that the following described property is no
longer needed for the City’s use:
TRACT “A”
Beginning at a point in the Northwest corner of said tract at the intersection of Harvard Road and Mill
Pond Drive Right-of-way S 46°35'02
W a distance of 43.76 feet to a point,
with a radius of 30.00 feet; thence S
00°01'03" W a distance of 192.39 feet
to a point; thence S 07°33'42" E a distance of 24.01 feet to a point, with a
radius of 93.00 feet; thence S 14°50'29"
E a distance of 258.25 feet to a point;
thence S 15°20'03" E a distance of 4.80
feet to a point, with a radius of 345.00
feet; thence S 87°30'05" E a distance
of 325.16 feet to a point; thence N
62°26'34" E a distance of 275.94 feet to
a point; thence N 03°15'39" E a distance of 359.87 feet to a point; thence N
86°30'54" W a distance of 393.85 feet
to a point; thence S 88°30'36" W a distance of 120.33 feet to a point; thence N
86°32'53" W a distance of 115.48 feet,
which is the point of beginning, having an area of 6.8 acres or 297,624
square feet.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Redeveloper
at a price not less than the appraised
value of $1,292,000, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
as may be placed by the City of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1473-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 676.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 329-11,
passed April 25, 2011, Section 681.05,
as amended by Ordinance No. 2704-

1736

October 30, 2013
A-90, passed June 15, 1992, and Section 681.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 83022, passed October 22,
1928, and supplementing the codified
ordinances by enacting new Section
676.081, requiring electronic reporting of transaction records by secondhand dealers and pawnbrokers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 676.08 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 329-11, passed April 25, 2011, Section 681.05, as amended by Ordinance
No. 2704-A-90, passed June 15, 1992,
and Section 681.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 83022, passed October
22, 1928, are amended as follows:
Section 676.08 Duty of Dealer in Secondhand
Articles;
Identification
Required from Seller; Records
(a) “Personal identification card”
means a current and valid driver’s
license, military identification card,
state identification card issued under
RC 4507.50 to 4507.52, or a state identification card issued by another state
on the condition that that card contains information substantially similar to the information contained on a
state identification card issued under
RC 4507.50 to 4507.52 and also contains
a photograph of the person to whom
the card is issued.
(b) A person other than a scrap
metal dealer, as defined in Section
676.06, purchasing, selling, exchanging, or receiving secondhand articles
of any kind other than special purchase articles as defined in Section
676.06 scrap iron, and scrap metal,
shall post in a conspicuous place in or
upon the person’s shop, store, wagon,
boat, or other place of business, a sign
having the person’s name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon, and
shall keep a separate electronic
record in which shall be written, in
the English language, at the time of
the purchase or exchange of such articles, a description thereof, the name,
description, and residence of the person from whom purchased and
received, and the day and time when
such purchase or exchange was made,
and shall make and keep a copy of the
person’s personal identification card.
Every entry shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with number
one (1).
The purchaser shall retain the electronic record and copies of personal
identification cards for at least one
(1) year after the purchase or
exchange date and shall make the
record or file and copies available for
inspection by any law enforcement
officer at all reasonable times.
Section 681.05 Register Required;
Inspection
A person so licensed shall keep a
correct list and clear description, as
an electronic record for that purpose,
of each article pledged or deposited
with him or her, or on which advances
of money have been made, or which
has been purchased by him or her
including personal property, bonds,
notes and/or other securities. A pawnbroker shall not accept any deposit,
pledge, or purchase without first
ascertaining the identity of the
prospective depositor by being presented a valid driver’s or commercial

October 30, 2013
driver’s license or an identification
card issued by the State of Ohio. The
social security number, name, age,
description, and place of residence of
the depositor and the date and hour
when the deposit was made shall be
entered and kept in the electronic
record for a period of not less than
two (2) years from the date of the
deposit, pledge or purchase. The electronic record shall also contain any
entry setting forth the interest to be
charged on the amount of money
loaned. Entries shall be made in the
English language, and no entry shall
be deleted, obliterated or defaced.
The book shall be open to inspection
at all reasonable times by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, any person deputed by him or her,
the Chief of Police, any police officer
deputed by him or her, the Mayor, or
any person deputed by him or her.
Upon demand of any of such officials,
the licensee shall produce and show
any article listed and described in the
electronic record, which is in his or
her possession.
Section 681.06 Pawnbrokers to Electronically Submit to the Division of
Police the Records of Transactions
Required to be Kept
Findings. This Council finds that
the only practicable way to review
the large volume of records required
to be kept by pawnbrokers both by RC
Chapter 4727 and this chapter is in an
electronic format. The requirement
imposed upon pawnbrokers by this
section that they submit reports of
their transactions to the Division of
Police in an electronic format is complimentary to the requirement of
recordkeeping already imposed by
state law and furthers the same law
enforcement purposes as the recordkeeping requirements.
(a) No pawnbroker shall fail to submit to the Division of Police each day
the records of transactions required
to be kept under Section 681.05 utilizing a computer program to be provided by the Division of Police for use by
pawnbrokers and accessible to them
via the internet in a form approved by
the Superintendent of financial institutions in accordance with RC Section
4727.08(J).
(b) The Director of Public Safety
may issue rules and regulations to
effectuate the electronic reporting
requirement imposed by this section,
which shall take effect fourteen (14)
days after their publication in the
City Record.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 676.81 as follows:
Section 676.081 Secondhand Dealers
to Electronically Submit to the Division of Police the Records of Transactions Required to be Kept
Findings. This Council finds that
the only practicable way to review
the large volume of records required
to be kept by secondhand dealers both
by RC Chapter 4737 and this chapter
is in an electronic format. The
requirement imposed upon secondhand dealers by this section that they
submit reports of their transactions to
the Division of Police in an electronic
format is complimentary to the
requirement
of
recordkeeping
already imposed by state law and furthers the same law enforcement purposes as the recordkeeping requirements.

The City Record
(a) No secondhand dealer shall fail
to submit to the Division of Police
each day the records of transactions
required to be kept under Section
676.08 utilizing a computer program
to be provided by the Division of
Police for use by secondhand dealers
and accessible to them via the internet.
(b) The Director of Public Safety
may issue rules and regulations to
effectuate the electronic reporting
requirement imposed by this section,
which shall take effect fourteen (14)
days after their publication in the
City Record.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall
take effect and be in force 120 days
after passage.
Section 4. That existing Section
676.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 329-11, passed April 25,
2011, Section 681.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2704-A-90, passed June
15, 1992, and Section 681.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 83022, passed
October 22, 1928 are repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1474-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 447.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance Number 2459A-91, passed December 14, 1992, and
Section 447.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 944-01, passed May 21,
2001, exempting carriage operators
and businesses that operate as part
of a special event for less than three
consecutive
days
from
licensing
requirements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 447.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
Number 2459-A-91, passed December
14, 1992, and Section 447.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 944-01, passed
May 21, 2001 are amended to read as
follows:
Section 447.02 Licenses Required
(a) No person shall operate any carriage upon the public rights of way of
the City without a carriage license
and a carriage operator’s license,
each issued pursuant to Section
447.07.
(b) No person shall operate a carriage business in the City without a
carriage business license issued pursuant to Section 447.07.
(c) A carriage operator or business
that operates, without charging the
public a fee, as part of a special event
permitted under Section 131.07 that
lasts less than three consecutive days
shall be exempt from the license
requirements of divisions (a) and (b)
of this section.

1737

17
Section 447.08 Regulations Governing Carriages and Carriage Businesses
(a) No carriage may operate in or
upon the public rights of way of the
City without displaying its carriage
license and its carriage business
license, unless exempt under Section
447.02(c) from the license requirements.
(b) No carriage operator may operate a carriage without having the carriage operator’s license issued pursuant to division (d) of Section 447.07
upon his or her person, unless exempt
under Section 447.02(c) from the
license requirements. When passengers are being picked up or discharged by a horse-drawn carriage, a
carriage operator’s assistant shall
assist the carriage operator so that
the carriage operator may devote his
or her attention entirely to operating
the carriage and keeping the horse
and carriage under secure control.
(c) Every carriage business shall
provide each of its horse-drawn vehicles with rate cards which set forth
the rates and charges filed with the
Commissioner pursuant to division
(a)(3) of Section 447.03. Rate cards
shall be prominently displayed within each carriage, and each carriage
operator shall acquaint all prospective passengers with current rates
and charges prior to taking on said
passengers. Rates shall not be
changed without ten (10) days prior
written notice to the Commissioner.
(d) No carriage operator or carriage operator’s assistant shall solicit
passengers in a loud voice or in such a
manner as to annoy or obstruct the
movement of any person; nor shall
any carriage operator pursue any person for purposes of soliciting patronage.
(e) No carriage operator or carriage
operator’s
assistant
shall
smoke while operating a carriage
that is carrying passengers.
(f) No carriage operator shall permit the occupancy of the carriage
which he or she is operating to exceed
the rated seating capacity of that carriage.
(g) Each carriage operator shall
ensure that all of his or her passengers are seated inside the carriage
when the carriage is in motion.
(h) Carriages shall be operated as
near to the right side of the roadway
as practicable, shall obey all traffic
laws, rules, and regulations applicable to motor vehicles, and shall exercise due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle which is proceeding in the same direction.
(i) Horse-drawn carriages shall
pick up and discharge passengers
only while legally parked at the curb
in zones established by the Director
of Public Safety after consultation
with the Commissioner of Traffic
Engineering. All other carriages may
pick up and discharge passengers
anywhere along their approved
routes, provided that they are legally
parked at the curb when doing so.
(j) No person shall operate a carriage on the streets of the City except
during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m., Mondays through Fridays, 6:00
p.m. to midnight, Mondays through
Fridays, and 8:00 a.m. to midnight on
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
(k) No person shall operate a carriage on any street of the City which
has been closed pursuant to lawful
authority, including closings pur-

The City Record

18
suant to Sections 133.03, 403.05, or
411.05 of these Codified Ordinances.
Upon notification of the Police Traffic Commissioner that special circumstances cause a particular street or a
particular area to be unsafe or too
congested for the operation of carriages during a specified time period,
no person shall operate a carriage
upon such street or in such area during such time period.
(l) No person shall carry passengers in a carriage into or out of the
Flats on the west side of the Cuyahoga River. No person shall carry passengers in a carriage into or out of the
Flats on the east side of the Cuyahoga
River, except on Front Street.
(m) All horse-drawn carriage business owners and horse-drawn carriage operators shall maintain their
horses in accordance with the following standards of animal husbandry:
(1) No person shall operate a horsedrawn carriage when the temperature, as reported by the National
Weather Service, exceeds eighty-five
degrees Fahrenheit (85°F).
(2) No person shall work any one
(1) horse more than six (6) hours per
day.
(3) Every horse-drawn carriage
owner shall properly fit or cause to be
fitted each of his or her horses with
rubber shoes.

(4) Every horse-drawn carriage
business owner and every horsedrawn carriage operator shall ensure
that his or her horses are properly
watered and given a ten (10) minute
rest period for every hour of use, are
in good health and at a proper body
weight, are not more than fifteen (15)
years old, and are properly fitted with
harness and tack.
(5) Every horse-drawn carriage
business owner shall ensure that
emergency veterinary treatment is
available for his or her horse.
(6) No horse-drawn carriage business owner or carriage operator shall
permit more than four (4) passengers
in a horse-drawn carriage at any time.
(n) Every six (6) months, commencing with the date of the application submitted pursuant to division
(b) of Section 447.03, a carriage
license holder shall submit to the
Police Traffic Commissioner a medical certificate for each horse used by
the carriage license holder in the
operation of horse-drawn carriages. A
carriage operator that is exempt
under Section 447.02(c) shall submit
to the Special Events Committee the
same medical certificate for each
horse used by the carriage operator.
The medical certificate shall be
signed by a registered veterinarian
and shall indicate that the horse is

October 30, 2013
medically fit, in good health both
physically and by temperament, sufficient to pull a horse-drawn carriage,
and has received all those inoculations which are determined to be
usual and customary according to
generally-accepted principles of animal husbandry.
(o) Every horse-drawn carriage
owner shall ensure that, whenever his
or her horses are upon the public
rights-of-way, each of them is fitted
with a device which prevents the
horse’s feces from dropping to the
ground.
Section 2. That existing Section
447.02 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance Number 2459-A-91, passed
December 14, 1992, and Section 447.08,
as amended by Ordinance No. 944-01,
passed May 21, 2001, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1461-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of land located on the north side of Chester Avenue between
East 97th Street and East 101st Street to a Local Retail Business District, an ‘F’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2465).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, and known as being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 401 and more fully bound and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Chester Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of East 101st Street;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Chester Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 97th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 97th Street to it intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Logan Court;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot No. 16 in the Marsh and Cody Brothers Re-Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 14, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line
thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line
of Sublot No. 12 in the aforementioned Marsh and Cody Brothers Re-Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of
Sublot No. 17 in the Logan Co. Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 40, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said southerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot No. 22 in the aforementioned Logan Co. Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Newton Avenue;
Thence easterly along said Newton Avenue and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 101st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 101st Street to its intersection with the centerline of Chester Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, an ‘F’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2465, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the front setback requirements along Chester Avenue, East 101st Street and East 97th Street are eliminated; therefore, the area described in Section 1 and shown on the attached map is exempt from Section 357.04 of The
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1738

October 30, 2013

The City Record

19

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1471-13.
By Council Members Cummins,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
West 26th Place.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of West 26th Place, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
A Portion of West 26th Place
(16.00 feet wide)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Number 69,
further described as follows:

Being all that portion of West 26th
Place (16.00 feet wide) extending for
the South right-of-way of Swift
Avenue S.W. (25.00 feet wide) Southeasterly to its Southerly terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 1472-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution acknowledging
the
City
of
Cleveland’s
Healthy Cleveland partners who
developed nutrition guidelines for
food served at City of Cleveland
facilities, community centers, food
banks and pantries, and encouraging
community
organizations
to
adopt the Healthy Cleveland nutrition guidelines.

1739

Whereas, every day in Greater
Cleveland, thousands of meals and
snacks
are
served
to
children
beyond school hours, to seniors
beyond their homes, and to community residents via countless community centers, food banks, and food
pantries; and
Whereas, the majority of these
meals are served to the one in six
Cleveland residents who are struggling to find their next meal, and
obtain an invaluable source of nutrition, community engagement, and
sustenance; and
Whereas,
Healthy
Cleveland’s
healthy eating subgroup developed
nutrition guidelines for food served
based on the USDA Dietary Guidelines current recommendations for
consumers; and
Whereas, these guidelines were
developed in partnership with The
Cleveland
Foodbank,
Children’s
Hunger Alliance, Hunger Network
of Greater Cleveland, City of Cleveland, Healthy Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, Cleveland Clinic, Ohio State
University Extension and The Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Food Policy
Coalition; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
acknowledges
its
partners
The
Cleveland
Foodbank,
Children’s

The City Record

20
Hunger
Alliance,
and
Cleveland
Clinic who helped develop the guidelines and are early adopters of the
guidelines; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
plans to adopt these nutrition guidelines at all of its facilities, and
encourages other community organizations to adopt Healthy Cleveland
nutrition guidelines; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
acknowledges the City of Cleveland’s
Healthy Cleveland partners who
developed nutrition guidelines for
food served at City of Cleveland facilities, community centers, food banks
and pantries, and encouraging community
organizations
to
adopt
Healthy Cleveland nutrition guidelines.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to Chris Vogliano and
Thea DeRosa at The Cleveland Foodbank, Shannon Kosmatka at Children’s Hunger Alliance, and Laura
Jeffers at Cleveland Clinic.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Law; Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1462-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 4713 West 130th
Street and repealing Resolution No.
1209-13, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 4713
West 130th Street by Resolution No.
1209-13 adopted by the Council on
September 16, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to 4713 West 130th
Street, Inc., 4713 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 2830532, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1209-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1475-13.
By Council Members Reed, Cummins, Conwell, J. Johnson and
Mitchell.
An emergency resolution calling
upon the CBS News organization,
specifically the 60 Minutes television news magazine to hire AfricanAmericans and Hispanics as contributing correspondents.
Whereas, Ed Bradley, a wellknown and respected African-American journalist was a contributing
correspondent for the CBS news
magazine 60 Minutes for 25 years;
and,
Whereas, at the time of Ed
Bradley’s death in 2006, he was 60
Minutes’ only on-screen black correspondent; and
Whereas, it took 60 Minutes 3
years to find another African-American contributing correspondent, hiring Byron Pitts in 2009, the first
African-American contributing correspondent at 60 Minutes since
Bradley’s death; and
Whereas, Byron Pitts left 60 Minutes for ABC news in March 2013,
leaving the news magazine again
with no African-American on-screen
correspondent; and
Whereas, although there are Hispanic news correspondents, such as
Soledad O’Brien and John Quinones,
on news shows at other networks,
no Hispanics are represented as contributing correspondents on 60 Minutes; and
Whereas, 60 Minutes, as the number 1 television news magazine in
the country, should have contributing correspondents that are members of the leading minorities in this
country; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
calls upon the CBS News organization, specifically the 60 Minutes television news magazine to hire AfricanAmericans and Hispanics as contributing correspondents.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the executives
and producers at CBS News and 60
Minutes, to NBC-LEO, HELO, the
board of the National League of
Cities, the chair of the Congressional
Black Caucus Ohio Congresswoman
Marcia Fudge, the Hispanic Roundtable, the Hispanic Alliance, and the
Cleveland Spanish-American Committee.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

1740

October 30, 2013
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 1.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed, Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting Nay: Council Member
Sweeney.
Absent: Council Member Dow.
Res. No. 1476-13.
By Council Members Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone, Mitchell, Brancatelli,
Polensek, Cleveland, Conwell, Keane,
Cummins and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution supporting the state of Ohio’s Energy Efficiency
Resource
Standard
and
Renewable Portfolio Standard and
opposing Substitute Senate Bill 58
and House Bill 302 which would gut
those standards and the consumerfriendly benefits that save electricity costs and create jobs.
Whereas, Ohio’s energy efficiency
and renewable energy standards
have been in place for over five
years, since SB 221 was passed in
April, 2008; and
Whereas,
in
2012,
Governor
Kasich, with bi-partisan support
from the Ohio legislature, reviewed
these standards and passed SB 315,
making the energy efficiency standards stronger by including technologies to help Ohio manufacturers;
and
Whereas, to date, all four of
Ohio’s Investor Owned Utilities are
exceeding the standards; and
Whereas, energy efficiency is one
of the cleanest and cheapest ways
to address our energy needs, and is
still the lowest-cost electric system
resource, even in a time of very low
natural gas prices, and
Whereas, these energy efficiency
standards have saved rate payers an
average of 1.4 % or $300 million dollars each year since their inception;
continuing utility commitments to
such standards will save $5.6 billion
in avoided energy expenditures; and
Whereas, requiring utilities to
participate in energy efficiency programs has been shown to reduce
Ohio’s energy consumption, encourage the development of energy efficiency technologies within Ohio,
reduce the cost of electricity and
create local jobs, and
Whereas, energy efficiency investments pursuant to Ohio’s Energy
Efficiency Resource Standard are
made only when the efficiency costs
less than an equal amount of energy, and the costs consumers and
businesses pay for these programs
is typically far outweighed by the
savings they provide, and
Whereas, investments in energy
efficiency and renewable energy not
only reduce overall expenditures on
energy, but provide important environmental and health benefits to the
community, including reductions in
toxic
air
pollutants
such
as
methane, nitrous oxide, nitrogen
oxide, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, lead, and
mercury, and

October 30, 2013
Whereas, more than 160 companies in Ohio provide jobs in the
solar industry and 55 of these companies have manufacturing facilities in the state; further, Ohio ranks
#4 in wind industry employment,
largely due to our strong manufacturing base; and
Whereas, in July, 2013, the City
provided 100% renewable electricity
to 65,000 residents and small business customers through municipal
aggregation, and
Whereas, the Ohio legislature is
currently attempting to halt the
state’s Energy Efficiency Resource
Standard by passing Substitute SB
58 and HB 302; and
Whereas, Sub. SB 58 and HB 302
threaten to outsource Ohio jobs,
increase the cost of electricity and
give an unprecedented profit to electric utilities at the expense of Ohio’s
residents and businesses; and
Whereas, Sub. SB 58 and HB 302
will reverse the significant progress
made since the 2008 adoption of
Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource
Standard and Renewable Portfolio
Standard; and
Whereas, this Council joins with
Mayor Frank Jackson, the 1.5 million
people
represented
by
the
AARP, the 600,000 members of the
Ohio Manufacturer’s Association, the
American Lung Association, United
Steel Workers, Sheet Metal Workers
International, the Toledo Blade, the
Akron Beacon Journal, and the
Cleveland Plain Dealer, among others, who oppose the stripping of
Ohio’s energy efficiency standards;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the state of Ohio’s Energy EffiResource
Standard
and
ciency
Renewable Portfolio Standard and
opposes Substitute Senate Bill 58 and
House Bill 302 which would gut those
standards and the consumer-friendly
benefits that save electricity costs
and create jobs.
Section 2. That the Clerk is directed
to send copies of this resolution to
Governor John Kasich, Ohio Senate
President Keith Faber, Ohio House
Speaker Bill Batchelder, Senate Energy and Public Utilities Committee
Chair Senator Bill Seitz, Ohio House
Public Utilities Committee Chair Representative Peter Stautberg, all members of the Ohio House and Senate
Public Utilities Committees; Executive Assistant for Energy, Environment and Agriculture, Craig Butler,
and Director of Policy Wayne Struble.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

The City Record
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1113-13.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale by the city
of airport system revenue bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000) to pay costs of improving the airport system; authorizing
supplemental indentures and other
agreements related to the bonds; and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1234-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 225.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02,
passed February 3, 2003, relating to
body piercing and tattooing establishments and fees; and to rename Chapter 225 to “Barber Shops, Body Piercing, and Tattooing Establishments.”
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Legislation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1297-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Grand Avenue, S.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1341-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Administrator of the Common
Pleas Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from Cuyahoga County for the
Veterans Treatment Docket - Operations Program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Legislation,
Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 3; in Section 1,
line 2; and in Section 3, line 4, strike
“Common Pleas Court” and insert in
all three places “Cleveland Municipal Court”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

1741

21
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1342-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Administrator of the Common
Pleas Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from Cuyahoga County for the
Veterans Treatment Docket - Residential Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with Y-Haven and Case Western Reserve University to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Legislation,
Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 3; in Section 1,
line 2; and in Section 3, line 4, strike
“Common Pleas Court” and insert in
all three places “Cleveland Municipal Court”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Miller, the absence of Council Member TJ Dow is hereby authorized.
Seconded by Council Member Cummins.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:47 p.m. to meet on Monday, November 11, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 23, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 23,
2013 at 10:39 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.

22
Others: R. Vilkas, Acting Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 614-13.
By Director Bender.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, and Board of Control
Resolution
No.
532-11,
adopted
November 9, 2011, the City, through
its
Director
of
Public
Utilities,
entered
into
City
Contract
No.
PS2011*304 with Black & Veatch
Corporation for general IT and
billing system support for the Customer Care and Billing (“CC&B”)
system, for a period not exceeding
two years, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 533-12, adopted October 17, 2012, the Director of Public
Utilities entered into a first modification to Contract No. PS2011*304 to
implement
the
Northeast
Ohio
Regional Sewer District storm water
charges within the CC&B system,
and to render additional IT management and technical support, on
the basis of its proposal dated September 17, 2012; and
the
City
desires
to
Whereas,
extend the term of City Contract No.
PS2011*304 for an additional year to
November 8, 2014 to obtain additional professional services necessary to
complete changes to effect separation of CWD and NEORSD billing,
and integration of Electronic Bill
Payment and Presentment system
services
for
CPP,
CWD
and
NEORSD, integration of Bill Print
system services for CPP, CWD and
NEORSD, implementation of mandatory year-end rate changes to the
CC&B, and IT infrastructure support; and
Whereas, Black & Veatch Corporation has proposed by its letter
dated September 24, 2013 (“Proposal”) to perform the above-described
additional services for a fee of
$1,800,000.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into a second
modification to City Contract No.
PS2011*304 with Black & Veatch
Corporation, on the basis of its proposal dated September 24, 2013, for
performance of the above-mentioned
additional services, extending the
contract term by one year through
November 8, 2014, and increasing the
contract amount by $1,800,000.00 to
$6,210,000.00. The second modification shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall include such
additional provisions as the Director
deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the participation of Om Consulting Group,
LLC (CSB/MBE) as a subconsultant
to Black & Veatch Corporation
under City Contract No. PS2011*304
is
increased
from
$450,000.00
(10.204%) to $660,000.00 (10.628%).
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, BenSmith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
der,
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.

The City Record

October 30, 2013

Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 615-13.
By Director Bender.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, and Resolution No.
531-11, adopted by this Board of Control on November 9, 2011, the City
through its Director of Public Utilities, entered into Contract No. CT2002-PS2012*010 with Rahim Inc. dba
RNR Consulting to provide professional consulting services necessary
to provide professional customer service systems support, including general IT support, billing system support, Cisco VoIP and call center support, business intelligence support
and development, IT infrastructure
support and microsoft system support, for a period not exceeding two
years, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, in
the amount of $975,000.00; and
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
extend the term of City Contract No.
CT-2002-PS2012*010 for an additional
year to November 8, 2014 to obtain
additional professional services to
enhance, integrate, and maintain the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities customer service IT
systems including, but not limited
to: billing, work management, and
meter reading systems; call center
application; internet/intranet sites;
payment processing system; and
other related IT systems that support customer services and operations; and
Whereas, Rahim Inc. dba RNR
Consulting has proposed by its letter dated October 3, 2013 (“Proposal”) to perform the above-described
additional services; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to enter into a modification to City Contract No. CT-2002PS2012*010 with Rahim Inc. dba
RNR Consulting, on the basis of its
proposal dated October 3, 2013, for
performance of the above-mentioned
additional services, extending the
contract term by one year through
November 8, 2014, and increasing the
contract amount by $499,129.68 to
$1,474,129.68. The modification shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall include such additional
provisions as the Director deems
necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following additional subconsultants by Rahim Inc. dba RNR Consulting
for
the
above-mentioned
additional services is approved:
Work
Percentage

Subconsultant

Recess Creative, LLC (CSB)
$ 50,000.00
3.392%
TieBridge, Inc.

$400,000.00
27.135%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.

1742

Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 616-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Energy Mechanical Corp., Inc. under Contract No.
RC2012*49 for labor and materials to
provide
maintenance,
repair,
enhancement and/or replacement of
heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, including rental,
for a period of two years, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractors

Work
Percentage

Facilitec, LLC

$ 4,000.00
0.473%

JACCO & Associates

$20,000.00
2.365%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 617-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by EnviroCom Construction, LLC, under City Contract
No.
PS2013*017
for
the
public
improvement of replacing or repairing the upper level roadways at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, authorized by Ordinance No.
274-05, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 2, 2005,
and Board of Control Resolution No.
101-13, as amended by Board of Control Resolution No. 371-13, adopted
March 6, 2013 and July 3, 2013,
respectively, is approved.
Subcontractor

Percentage
Amount

Ultra Renovations, Inc.
1.00% Non-DBE
$ 3,894.00
Forest City Erector, Inc.
1.30% Non-DBE
$13,700.00
Safway Services

0.01% Non-DBE
$ 6,970.30

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 618-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Section 571.88 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the schedule of fees that the
Director of Port Control proposes to
assess and collect from parties for
use and rental of meeting room
space at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, excepting those
parties that Section 571.88 permits to
be excepted, is set as follows:

The City Record

October 30, 2013
CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Event Charges
(Not to Exceed)
1 to 500 square feet
meeting room

$250.00 per day
$125.00 per half day
$ 50.00 per hour

501 to 1,000 square feet
meeting room
$300.00 per day
$150.00 per half day
$ 60.00 per hour
Over 1,000 square feet
meeting room
$450.00 per day
$225.00 per half day
$ 75.00 per hour
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland, that under Section 571.88
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the schedule of fees
that the Director of Port Control proposes to assess and collect from parties for use and rental of meeting
room space at Burke Lakefront Airport, excepting those parties that
Section 571.88 permits to be excepted, is set as follows:
BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT
Event Charges
(Not to Exceed)
Main Lobby/West
Concourse
Small Conference
room
Large Conference
room

$1,000.00 per day
$ 200.00 per day
$ 100.00 per half day
$ 250.00 per day
$ 150.00 per half day

Be it further resolved that Resolution No. 418-12, adopted August 22,
2012, is rescinded effective April 30,
2013, and that the rental rates shall
be in force and effect for a period
not to exceed one year from April
30, 2013 to April 30, 2014.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 619-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Dynatest Consulting, Inc.
for the purchase of One Continuous
Friction Measuring Equipment Unit,
including training, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
received on August 16, 2013 under
the authority of Ordinance No. 105412, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on October 1, 2012,
which on the basis of the order
quantity
would
amount
to
$187,088.50, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid; and the
Director of Port Control is requested to enter into a STANDARD contract for the item.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.

Resolution No. 620-13.
By Director Wasik.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 532-12, passed by
Cleveland City Council on June 4,
2012, and Board of Control Resolution No. 147-13, adopted April 3, 2013,
the City, through the Director of the
Office of Capital Projects, entered
into Contract No. PI-2013*38 with
Chagrin Valley Paving, Inc. for the
public improvement of East 72nd
Street from St. Clair Avenue to the
North Marginal Road, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects, and
approved
various
subcontractors;
and
Whereas, Resolution No. 419-13,
adopted July 24, 2013, approved the
employment of the following additional subcontractor to Chagrin Valley Paving, Inc. under Contract No.
PI-2013*38:
Noce Enterprises, Inc. (Other)
$277,286.69(29.89%);
and
Whereas, Chagrin Valley Paving,
Inc. wishes to reduce the participation of Noce Enterprises, Inc. under
Contract No. PI-2013*38; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 419-13, adopted July
24, 2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 532-12, passed by Cleveland City Council on June 4, 2012,
approving Chagrin Valley Paving,
Inc. as the lowest responsible bidder
for the public improvement of East
72nd Street from St. Clair Avenue to
the North Marginal Road, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects,
is amended by changing the participation of the following approved
subcontractor to the following:
Noce Enterprises, Inc. (Other)
$200,000.00(21.56%)
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following additional subcontractor by Chagrin Valley Paving, Inc. for the above-mentioned public improvement contract
is approved:
RMH Concrete and
Foundations, Inc. (other)
$77,286.69(8.33%).
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 621-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on August 29, 2013,
for the purchase of Elgin parts and
labor, (rebid), all items, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, under
the authority of Section 131.64 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.

1743

23
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 622-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1218-11,
passed October 3, 2011 and Board of
Control Resolution No. 381-10, adopted September 1, 2010, authorized the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 136-07-107 and 136-02-108
to Chriss Cranston for yard expansion, as part of the City Land Reutilization Program established under
Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on October
25, 1976; and
Whereas, in the fourth paragraph,
Resolution No. 381-10 incorrectly
identified the proposed purchaser of
the parcel to be sold as “Chriss
Cranston”; and the PPN as 136-07-107;
now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 0381-10, adopted by
this Board September 1, 2010, authorizing the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel Nos. 136-07-107
and 136-02-108 to Chriss Cranston for
yard expansion, is amended by substituting
“Cranston
Chriss”
for
“Chriss Cranston”, and amending the
PPN by substituting 136-02-107 for
136-07-107 where appearing in the
resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
381-10 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 623-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 300-13, adopted June 12,
2013, authorized the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 01916-098 to Emmanuel Akateh and
Margaret Nkengafac Akateh for
yard expansion, as part of the City
Land Reutilization Program established under Ordinance No. 2076-76,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on October 25, 1976; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 300-13
only identified Permanent Parcel
No. 019-16-098; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 300-13, adopted by
this Board June 12, 2013, authorizing the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 019-16-098 to
Emmanuel Akateh and Margaret
Nkengafac Akateh for yard expansion, is amended by also adding
“and Permanent Parcel No. 019-16099” after “Permanent Parcel No.
019-16-098” where the latter appears
in the resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
300-13 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.

24
Resolution No. 624-13.
By Director Rush.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
660-13, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland May 20, 2013, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1300-13,
passed on October 14, 2013, Cathy
Sabolik is selected from a list of
qualified
consultants
determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Community Developas
the
consultant
to
be
ment
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of several departments of the City of
Cleveland to perform the professional services necessary to provide
technical assistance to Storefront
Renovation
Program
applicants
located in certain areas of the city,
for the Division of Neighborhood
Development, Department of Community Development.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to enter into contract
with Cathy Sabolik, based on its proposal dated May 31, 2013, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall provide for the furnishing of professional services as
described in the proposal for an
aggregate fee of $44,000, and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 625-13.
By Director Rush.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
660-13, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland May 20, 2013, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1300-13,
passed on October 14, 2013, Carolyn
Smith is selected from a list of qualified consultants determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Community Development
as the consultant to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of several departments of the City of Cleveland to
perform the professional services
necessary to provide technical assistance to Storefront Renovation Program applicants located in certain
areas of the city, for the Division of
Neighborhood Development, Department of Community Development.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to enter into contract
with Carolyn Smith, based on its
proposal dated May 31, 2013, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
the furnishing of professional services as described in the proposal
for an aggregate fee of $44,000, and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.

The City Record

October 30, 2013

Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES

Resolution No. 626-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City
has
acquired
Permanent
Parcels No. 108-13-119, 108-13-120, 10813-121, 108-13-122, 108-13-123, 108-14007, 108-14-045, 108-14-046, 108-29-066,
108-29-067, 108-29-068, 108-30-015, 10830-016, 109-21-106, 109-21-017, 109-21018, 109-21-019, 109-21-020, 109-21-117,
110-29-048, 110-29-049 and 110-29-053
located in various locations in Ward
9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcels
for
commercial/industrial
open space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District for the sale
and
development
of
Permanent
Parcels No. 108-13-119, 108-13-120, 10813-121, 108-13-122, 108-13-123, 108-14007, 108-14-045, 108-14-046, 108-29-066,
108-29-067, 108-29-068, 108-30-015, 10830-016, 109-21-106, 109-21-017, 109-21018, 109-21-019, 109-21-020, 109-21-117,
110-29-048, 110-29-049 and 110-29-053
located in various locations according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of all the
parcels shall be $96,350.00, which
amount is determined to be not less
than the fair market value of the
parcels for uses according to the
Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Gehlmann, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Nichols.

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

1744

____________

Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-227: 806 Literary
Road (Ward 3)
Sandy Banks, LLC, owner, and
Jeffrey Rutushin, agent, appeal to
expand an existing bar/restaurant
to the basement in a one and two
story
building
on
an
irregular
shaped parcel in a C1 General Retail
Business District; providing no offstreet parking contrary to Section
349.04(f) and required additional
parking at the rate of one space per
four seats; the added 29 additional
occupants for the basement requiring an additional nine off-street
parking spaces; and the expansion
of a nonconforming use is subject to
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeals
approval, according to the provisions under Section 359.01 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-233: 927 East 123rd
Street (Ward 9)
Paul McPherson, owner, appeals
to establish use for a barber shop
and beauty salon in a one-story
building located on a 110' x 103'
corner parcel in a C1 Local Retail
Business District; subject to the
requirements
under
Section
349.07(b) accessory off-street parking spaces shall be provided with
bumper guards; and pursuant to Sections 352.09-11, an 8 feet wide, heavy
landscaping
transition
strip
is
required with a minimum of 75%
year-round opacity; and parking in
the required side street yard is not

The City Record

October 30, 2013
a permitted encroachment according
to Section 357.13(b) and fences in
actual front and side street yards in
non-residence
districts
may
not
exceed a height of 4 feet according
to Section 358.05(a)(2) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-236: 4113 East 71st
Street (Ward 12)
Gerald Durante, owner, and Elricco Lynch, prospective tenant, appeal
to establish use for piercing and tattooing in a mixed use building located on a 72.66' x 115' parcel in a C1
General Retail Business District;
where the proposed use abuts a residence district and must be at least
a distance of 1,000 feet pursuant to
Section 347.12(b)(1); and proposing
no landscaping contrary to Sections
352.08-12 that require a 10 feet wide
landscaped transition strip providing 75% year-round opacity where
the use abuts a residence district;
and under the provisions in Section
352.07(b)
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeals must determine if existing
nonconformity in landscaping may
continue.
Calendar No. 13-237: 1891 East 93rd
Street (Ward 7)
The
Cleveland
Clinic,
owner,
appeals to create three (3) parking
spaces to be added on an existing
parking lot located in an E3 MultiFamily District; subject to the provisions under Section 357.13(b)(1) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances,
parking is not a permitted encroachment in the required front yard setback.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
28, 2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-221: 15800 Norway
Avenue
Mark and Tracy Benton appealed
to install 72 linear feet of wooden
fence 8 feet high in the rear yard
of a parcel in an A1 One-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-199: 1130 Ivanhoe
Road
The 1130 Ivanhoe Road Group,
LLC appealed to use property for
storage, processing, including shredding,
of
construction/demolition
debris, scrap and salvage material
in a Semi-Industry District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-226: International
Union of Operating Engineers
Local 18
The International Union of Operating Engineers Local 18 appealed
from a decision of the City of Cleveland Planning Commission to deny
a request for a demolition permit for
its property at 3600 Euclid Avenue.

25

The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
None.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 13-82: 16569 St. Clair
Avenue
Calabrese Cement & Masonry Contractors, owner, appeals to establish
use for outside storage/stockpiling
of dirt and rock on irregular shaped,
corner
acreage
in
split
zoning
between C2 Semi-Industry and B3
General Industry Districts.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-219: 4931 State Road
postponed to December 2, 2013.
By approval of a Motion the following appeal is set for REHEARING:

Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-190-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One &
One/half Story Frame and One Story
Garage – Detached; Masonry Property, located on the premises known
as 7315 Lawn Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
May 29, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-190-13 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *

Calendar No. 13-222: 1843 Fulton
Road scheduled to November 18,
2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on October 21, 2013 were
adopted and approved on October 28,
2013.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar
No.
13-216:
2163
West
Boulevard
Cuyahoga
County
Land
Bank,
owner, and Jason Brooks, prospective purchaser, appealed to erect an
open, wooden front porch to a one
family dwelling in a B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-217: 7005 Clement
Avenue
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Incorporated appealed to
erect a two-story rear room addition
to a one family dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-220: 1417 East 25th
Street
Cement
Masons
Local
404
appealed to install approximately
202 linear feet of 6 feet high chain
link fence in actual front and side
street yards in a C1 Multi-Family
District.
Calendar No. 13-141: 3630 Trowbridge
Avenue
Richfield Sunset, LLC, owner, and
Melissa Martinez, prospective tenant, appealed to establish use as a
child care facility in a one-story
building located in a B1 Two-Family District; subject to conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 23, 2013
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,

1745

Docket A-191-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 3297 East
147th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated January 3, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-191-13 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-192-13.
RE: Appeal of Becky Jaajaa,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Wood
Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property, located on the
premises known as 6515 Wakefield
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated June 20, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to clean up the outside of
the property in a presentable manner within two (2) weeks, and to
grant the Appellant four (4) weeks
in which to obtain all required permits and six (6) months in which to
complete abatement of the violations, noting that failure to meet
any of these dates will REMAND
the property immediately; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
Docket A-204-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence One &

The City Record

26
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
6404 Fullerton Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated April 28, 2011 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-204-13 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-205-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3541 Trowbridge Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
10, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-205-13 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-206-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
9416 Manor Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 26,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-206-13 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-207-13.
RE: Appeal of Halima Omar,
Owner of the Residential Property,
located on the premises known as
5904 Bridge Avenue from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS, dated
February 14, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations, noting that the work has been
completed and submitted for a Certificate of Occupancy; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
Docket A-208-13.
RE: Appeal of Robert Hunter,
Owner of the Residential Property,

located on the premises known as
735 Parkwood Drive from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS, dated
February 14, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations, noting that additional time
may be awarded at the discretion of
the
inspector;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
Docket A-209-13.
RE: Appeal of Karen O’Toole,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
393 East 147th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 2, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-209-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 6, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-212-13.
RE: Appeal of St. Peter Parish
C/O Most Rev. Richard G. Lennon,
Owner of the A-3 Assembly – Recreation or Religious Facilities Three
Story Masonry Walls/Wood Floors
Semi-Industry Property, located on
the premises known as 1533 East
17th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July 17, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
Docket A-213-13.
RE: Appeal of Aeon Financial,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One &
One/half Story Frame and One Story
Garage – Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises

1746

October 30, 2013
known as 4266 East 160th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE,
dated February 14, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-213-13 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-214-13.
RE: Appeal of HSBC Bank USA
National Association, Owner of the
One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence One & One/half Story
Masonry Property, located on the
premises known as 9629 Thorn
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
June
14,
2013, and Two & One/half Story
Masonry Garage Property from a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
GARAGE, dated July 17, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-214-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 6, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-215-13.
RE: Appeal of Eleanor E. Taylor,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3676 East 147th Street from a
VACATE ORDER, dated July 23,
2013, from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS,
dated July 17, 2013, and from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — GARAGE,
dated July 17, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-215-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 6, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-216-13.
RE: Appeal of West 25th Street
Lofts, LLC, Owner of the Property,
located on the premises known as
1526 West 25th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated July 30,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the existing doors
to
swing
into
the
right-of-way
approximately three (3) feet onto
the sixteen (16) foot sidewalk, noting the concurrence of the City and
the fact that the main entrances are
needed of these doors. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke Nays: None Not
Voting: Mr. Saab

October 30, 2013
Docket A-217-13.
RE: Appeal of Judith Hanf, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 9629 Thorn
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated July 30, 2013 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to abate the violations, with concentration on the exterior of the
property that the neighborhood has
to view and to make the property
weather-tight;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke Nays: None Not
Voting: Mr. Saab
*    *    *
Docket A-219-13.
RE: Appeal of M. Loretta Cofield,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
Story
Garage – Detached; Property, located on the premises known as 4749
East 173th Street from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — FIRE DAMAGE,
dated July 22, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervirequired
further
sion
and
any
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke Nays: None Not
Voting: Mr. Saab
*    *    *
Docket A-253-13.
RE: Appeal of Ernest DeNardy,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Wood
Property,
located on the premises known as
4829
Ardmore
Avenue
from
a
VACATE ORDER, dated September
30, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that based
upon the photographic evidence and
testimony presented, to enforce the
VACATE ORDER immediately and
DENY the request for additional
time because of the condition of the
property, and that the City is ready
to assist the Appellant in relocation;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and

The City Record
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
Docket A-262-13.
RE: Appeal of David Humphrey,
Owner of the Property, located on
premises
known
as
1122
the
Prospect Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated October 11,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the balcony to be
constructed as proposed and to
allow it to remain should the properties be divided or sold in view of
the architectural problems associated with the property, and to require
that the easement be recorded and
carried forward. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher

27
A-194-13 — Dorothy E. Talbott
A-199-13 — Preferred Property Services, LLC
A-255-13 — Wilson Luu
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval respectively,
subject to the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-200-13 — Ojala Properties LLC
A-201-13 — Ojala Properties LLC
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Not Voting: Mr.
Saab
Absent: Mr. Gallagher
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

*    *    *

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):

EXTENSION OF TIME:

October 9, 2013

Docket A-315-12 – Geoffrey Griffin
– 9402 Nelson Avenue:
A motion is in order at this time
to require the permits to be reactivated up to three (3) months and
additional time may be granted up
to a total of six (6) months if
progress is being made; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval respectively,
subject to the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC):

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
A-177-13
—
Cleveland
Metro.
Schools
A-179-13 — St. Clair Superior Dev.
Corp.
A-184-13 — Todd J. Knight
—
Shirley
Collier
&
A-186-13
Charles Lawrence
A-189-13 — Michael Benigni
A-197-13 — Bryan Shepherd
A-198-13 — Jesse V. Dickerson
A-203-13 — Mary D. Hopkins
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke Nays: None Absent: Mr.
Gallagher
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval respectively,
subject to the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC):

1747

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.

The City Record

28
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2013
File No. 174-13 — Sewer Test Tee
Inspection,
Installation
and
Snaking, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 541.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY,
NOVEMBER 8, 2013 AT 11:00 A.M.
THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE, RED ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
October 30, 2013 and November 6, 2013
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2013
File No. 173-13 — Pneumatic Tire
Tow Motors and Related Equipment, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 943-11, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2013
AT 10:00 A.M. MOTOR VEHICLE
4150
EAST
MAINTENANCE,
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
October 30, 2013 and November 6, 2013
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2013
File No. 175-13 — The Purchase of
Two (2) New or Remanufactured
Six (6) Cylinder Diesel Engines
That are EPA Tier 3 Approved,
to be Installed and to Replace
Two
(2)
Caterpillar
3408B
Engines
Installed
In
Airport
Snow
Blowers
Code
Numbers
167H27 and 167H28, for the Divi-

sion
of
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13,
2013 AT 10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 441353193.
October 30, 2013 and November 6, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1438-13.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
3349 West 117th Street, 1st floor and
rear, and repealing Resolution No.
1166-13, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 3349 West 117th
Street, 1st floor and rear, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, Permanent No. 1428979
by Resolution No. 1166-13 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to Chief’s Headquarters, Inc.,
DBA HQ Lounge, 3349 West 117th
Street, 1st floor and rear, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, Permanent No. 1428979, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1166-13, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Res. No. 1443-13.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
4301 State Road and Patio, and
repealing Resolution No. 1208-13,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 4301 State Road
and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permanent No. 8725043 by Resolu-

1748

October 30, 2013
tion No. 1208-13 adopted by the Council on September 16, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to Swagger Tavern, LLC, 4301
State Road and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 8725043, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1208-13, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Res. No. 1448-13.
By Council Members Polensek,
Sweeney, Zone, Mitchell, Kelley,
Westbrook, Cummins, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Keane, Miller, Pruitt and Reed.
An emergency resolution supporting H.B. 274, also known as “Goddard’s Law” which will toughen
Ohio’s
companion
animal
abuse
laws.
Whereas, currently in Ohio, abuse
of animals is only a first degree
misdemeanor, an absurd and often
meaningless penalty which, in most
cases means little or no jail time;
and
Whereas,
State
Representative
Bill Patmon, along with Dick Goddard and the Public Animal Welfare
Society are advocates of tougher
animal cruelty laws in Ohio;
Whereas, Representative Patmon
is a sponsor of House Bill 274, or
“Goddard’s Law” which will toughen
Ohio’s companion animal abuse laws
by making it a felony to knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports H.B. 274, also known as
“Goddard’s Law” which will toughen
Ohio’s companion animal abuse laws.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich,
Ohio House Representative Bill Patmon, William Batchelder, Speaker of
the Ohio House of Representatives,
Keith Faber, President of the Ohio
Senate, and to those representatives
and senators in the Ohio legislature
representing northeast Ohio.

October 30, 2013
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Ord. No. 1353-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 619.08 and 619.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
773-87, passed June 16, 1987, relating
to penalties for procuring and soliciting prostitution.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 619.08 and
619.09 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 773-87, passed June 16,
1987, are hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 619.08 Procuring
(a) No person, knowingly and for
gain, shall do either of the following:
(1) Entice or solicit another to
patronize a prostitute or brothel;
(2) Procure a prostitute for another
to patronize, or take or direct another
at his or her request to any place for
the purpose of patronizing a prostitute.
(b) No person, having authority or
responsibility over the use of premises, shall knowingly permit such
premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
(RC 2907.23)
(c) Whoever violates this section is
guilty of procuring, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Notwithstanding any
other section of this Code:
(1) At least thirty (30) days’ imprisonment and a fine of at least four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) is mandatory upon conviction of a first offense
under this section;
(2) At least sixty (60) days’ imprisonment and a fine of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) is mandatory
upon conviction of a second offense;
and
(3) At least ninety (90) days’
imprisonment and a fine of four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) is mandatory upon conviction of a third or any
subsequent offense under this section.
Section 619.09 Soliciting
(a) No person shall solicit another
to engage with such other person in
sexual activity for hire. This section
forbids the solicitations of paid sexual activity, whether the solicitor is the
one buying or selling his or her
favors. (RC 2907.24)
(b) Whoever violates the provisions of this section is guilty of soliciting, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Notwithstanding any other
section of this Code:
(1) At least ten (10) days’ imprisonment and a fine of at least four hun-

The City Record
dred fifty dollars ($450.00) is mandatory upon conviction of a first offense
under this section.
(2) At least twenty (20) days’
imprisonment and a fine of four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) is mandatory upon conviction of a second
offense; and
(3) At least thirty (30) days’ imprisonment and a fine of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) is mandatory
upon conviction of a third or any subsequent offense under this section.
Section 2. That Sections 619.08 and
619.09 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 773-87, passed June 16,
1987, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Ord. No. 1385-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
with ZOLL Data Systems for the
acquisition of one or more Rescue
Net ePCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire
RMS software licenses to implement
a
records
management
system,
including training, data migration,
project
management,
deployment
services, maintenance, technical support, and other related services, for
a period of one year after the warranty on the software expires, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with ZOLL
Data Systems for the acquisition of
one or more Rescue Net ePCR Suite
and Rescue Net Fire RMS software
licenses to implement a records management system, including training,
data migration, project management,
deployment services, maintenance,
technical support, and other related
services, for a period of one year after
the warranty on the software expires,
on the basis of its proposal dated September 20, 2013, in the total sum of
$178,435, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety. The contract or contracts shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 553 and 11 SF 006,
RQS 6001, RL 2013-152.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

1749

29
Ord. No. 1402-13.
By Council Members Keane, Pruitt,
K. Johnson, Kelley and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 683-09,
passed May 18, 2009, relating to the
sale of the Convention Center and
Malls B and C to the County to
develop a Medical Mart, and authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into a Donor Advised Agreement with the Cleveland Foundation
in order to establish, manage, and
implement a City College Scholarship Fund for City residents.
Whereas,
among
other
things,
Ordinance No. 683-09, passed May 18,
2009, related to the sale of the Convention Center and Malls B and C
to the County to develop a Medical
Mart, and authorized the Director of
Finance to enter into an agreement
with a local foundation to manage
a City College Scholarship Fund
established by the foundation for
graduates of the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to be funded
from a portion of the proceeds of the
sale of the Convention Center and
Malls B and C; and
Whereas, through an Agreement,
the City desires to specify the Cleveland Foundation as the local foundation to establish, manage, and
implement a City of Cleveland Scholarship Fund; and
Whereas, under that Agreement,
the City will transmit to the Cleveland Foundation up to $2 million
dollars for that purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
9 of Ordinance No. 683-09, passed May
18, 2009, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at 500 Lakeside Avenue, also
known as 1220 East 6th Street, The
Convention Center and Malls B and C
to the County of Cuyahoga, for purposes of developing a Medical Mart
facility; authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
reserve certain easement interests in
Malls B and C for the purpose of creating and maintaining public park
space; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County regarding the redevelopment
of the property; and authorizing the
Director of Finance to enter into a
Donor Advised Agreement with the
Cleveland Foundation to establish,
manage, and implement a City of
Cleveland Scholarship Fund for City
residents; and authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit
to Cuyahoga County Commissioners,
or their designee, to encroach above,
upon and below public rights-of-way
immediately adjacent to and within
the areas described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That assisting Cleveland’s high school graduates to
defray the cost of up to four years of
their college education will have a
significant positive impact on our
City by better preparing our youth to
be successful in life, by attracting
families to stay in and move to the
City, and by providing Cleveland
employers with a better education

The City Record

30
and more skilled workforce. For this
reason, the Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into a Donor
Advised Agreement with the Cleveland Foundation in the amount of $2
million dollars to establish, manage,
and implement the City of Cleveland
Scholarship Fund in order to meet the
objectives of this section using a portion of funds received from the sale of
the Convention Center and Malls B
and C as authorized by this ordinance.
The Donor Advised Agreement shall
be substantially in the same form as
the Agreement contained in File No.
1402-13-A. The cost of establishing,
managing, and implementing the
Scholarship Fund shall not exceed
$2,000,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 10 SF 120 (RQS 0117, RL 2013-158).
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 9 of Ordinance No. 683-09,
passed May 18, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Ord. No. 1413-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more

requirement contracts of body cameras,
including
upgrades
and
replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software
updates,
training,
support,
warranty, and maintenance for a
period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements of the necessary items of body cameras and
ancillary
equipment,
including
upgrades and replacement of damaged or obsolete equipment, managed
storage, software updates, and training for a one year period, with a oneyear option to renew exercisable by
the Director of Public Safety, and for
maintenance and support agreements
for the body cameras and ancillary
equipment obtained under the authority of this ordinance for a period of
one year once the warranty for body
cameras and ancillary equipment has
expired, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items

October 30, 2013
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 6001, RL 2013-39)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Ord. No. 1437-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance To amend Sections 47 and 49 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as
amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011:
Section 47, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, Ord. No. 1045-12, passed August 8, 2012,
and Ordinance No. 121-13, passed July 28, 2013, and Ordinance No. 1344-13, passed September 23, 2013; and
Section 49, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, are amended to read as follows:
Section 47. Hourly Rate - Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Effective
Date
Asbestos Worker (Insulator) .................................................8/1/13
Boiler Maker .................................................................................1/1/13
Bricklayer ......................................................................................5/1/13
Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................5/1/13
Carpenter ........................................................................................5/1/13
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................5/1/13
Cement Finisher ..........................................................................5/1/13
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................5/1/13
Electrical Worker .......................................................................4/29/13
Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................4/29/13
Glazier .............................................................................................5/1/13
Ironworker .....................................................................................5/1/13
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................5/1/13
Painter.............................................................................................6/3/13
Painter Foreman .........................................................................6/3/13
Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................5/1/13
Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................5/1/13
Plasterer .........................................................................................5/1/13
Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................5/1/13
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................5/1/13

1750

Minimum
$44.30
47.49
36.43
37.68
36.13
37.37
36.67
37.92
45.13
46.38
35.29
41.13
42.38
31.86
33.11
44.14
45.39
35.46
36.71
44.18

Maximum
$55.38
59.36
45.54
46.54
45.15
46.30
45.84
46.59
56.41
57.56
44.11
51.41
53.91
39.82
40.82
55.17
55.67
44.33
45.83
55.23

October 30, 2013
21.
22.
23.
24.

The City Record

Plumber Foreman .......................................................................5/1/13
Roofer ..............................................................................................4/28/13
Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................5/1/13
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................5/1/13

31
45.43
36.72
45.23
46.48

56.73
45.90
56.54
58.64

Section 49. Hourly Rate - MCEO
Effective May 1, 2012, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each
classification:

1.
2.
3.

Construction Equipment - Group A .....................................
Construction Equipment - Group B .....................................
Master Mechanic..........................................................................

Minimum
$38.92
$38.80
$39.30

Maximum
$48.65
$48.50
$49.12

Section 2. That the following Sections of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011:
Section 47, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, Ord. No. 1045-12, passed August 8, 2012,
and Ordinance No. 121-13, passed July 28, 2013, and Ordinance No. 1344-13, passed September 23, 2013; and
Section 49, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Ord. No. 1439-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Bellaire
Puritas
Development
Corporation
for the West 138th Street San Diego
Community Garden Project through
the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective October 16, 2013
with the Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation for the West 138th
Street San Diego Community Garden
Project for the public purpose of promoting urban farming and community gardening activities for city of
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

Ord. No. 1440-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Downtown Cleveland Residents Association or with its fiscal agent Historic
Gateway Neighborhood Corporation
for the Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program through the use of
Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Downtown Cleveland Residents Association or with its
fiscal agent Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corporation for the Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program
for the public purpose of promoting
Cleveland’s downtown district for
commercial and residential reinvestment through the use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 21, 2013.
Effective October 24, 2013.

1751

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 28, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cleveland, K. Johnson,
Authorized
Pruitt,
Sweeney.
Absence: Cummins, Vice Chair; Dow,
Keane, Polensek.
2:00 p.m.
City
Planning
Committee
&
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Brady, Dow.
Pro tempore: Kelley, Pruitt. Present
in Finance: Kelley, Chair; Brady,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Brancatelli,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Sweeney,
Vice Chair.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Tuesday, October 29, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cimperman, J. Johnson, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized Absence: Cummins. Unauthorized Absence: Dow, Vice Chair;
Miller.
Wednesday, October 30, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins,
Mitchell, Miller, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Dow.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee:
Present: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Cummins,
Kelley,
Miller,
Authorized
Polensek,
Westbrook.
Absence: Conwell, Dow.

The City Record

32

October 30, 2013

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland
Foundation — establish Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No.
683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Rd. and Mill Pond Dr. — Sell City-owned property — PROPSTONE, LLC — behavioral
hospital (O 1470-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland — grant —
Greater Cleveland Partnership — Office of Equal Opportunity (O 1469-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program — Downtown Cleveland Residents Association
(Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corp.) — Community Development Department
(Ward 03 CRF) (O 1440-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — Bellaire Puritas Development Corp. —
Community Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1749
. . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . 1735

. . . . . . . . . . . 1751
. . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Animals
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Appreciation
Carrington, Elder Paul (R 1481-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Ardmore Avenue, 4829, (Ward 13) — Ernest DeNardy, owner — appeal resolved on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-253-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5904, (Ward 15) — Halima Omar, owner — appeal resolved on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-207-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brinsmade Avenue, 7128, (Ward 15) — Todd J. Knight, owner — appeal adopted on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-184-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coit Road, 13612, (Ward 10) — Shirley Collier & Charles Lawrence, owners — appeal adopted
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-186-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 7407, (Ward 15) — Cleveland Metropolitan School District (Watterson Lake
School), owner — appeal adopted on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-177-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 103rd Street, 3526, (Ward 5) — Mary D. Hopkins, owner — appeal adopted on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-203-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3297, (Ward 1) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-191-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3676, (Ward 2) — Eleanor E. Taylor, owner — appeal postponed to
11/06/13 on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-215-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 393, (Ward 10) — Karen O’Toole, owner — appeal postponed to 11/06/13
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-209-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 160th Street, 4266, (Ward 1) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-213-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 173rd Street, 4749, (Ward 1) — M. Loretta Cofield, owner — appeal resolved on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-219-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 17th Street, 1533, (Ward 3) — St. Peter Parish c/o Most Rev. Richard G. Lennon,
owner — appeal resolved on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-212-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 1209, (Ward 7) — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-179-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue, 5502, (Ward 12) — Preferred Property Services, LLC, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-199-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fullerton Avenue, 6404, (Ward 12) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-204-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lawn Avenue, 7315, (Ward 15) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-190-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manor Avenue, 9416, (Ward 4) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-206-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nelson Avenue, 9402, (Ward 2) — Geoffrey Griffin, owner — extension of time granted on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-315-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkhurst Avenue, 10703, (Ward 17) — Michael Benigni, owner — appeal adopted on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-189-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkwood Drive, 735, (Ward 9) — Robert Hunter, owner — appeal resolved on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-208-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1752

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746

October 30, 2013

The City Record

Prospect Avenue, 1122, (Ward 3) — David Humphrey, owner — appeal resolved on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-262-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thorn Avenue, 9629, (Ward 15) — Judith Hanf, owner — appeal resolved on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-217-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thorn Avenue, 9629, (Ward 8) — HSBC Bank USA National Association, owner — appeal
postponed to 11/06/13 on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-214-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trowbridge Avenue, 3541, (Ward 14) — Aeon Financial, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-205-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 12100, (Ward 4) — Bryan Shepherd, owner — appeal adopted on 10/23/13
(Doc. A-197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wakefield Avenue, 6515, (Ward 15) — Becky Jaajaa, owner — appeal resolved on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-192-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 118th Street, 3528, (Ward 17) — Dorothy E. Talbott, owner — appeal adopted on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-194-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4174-76, (Ward 17) — Wilson Luu and the Foundation of Truth Ministry,
owner — appeal adopted on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-255-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1526, (Ward 3) — West 25th Street Lofts, LLC, owner — appeal resolved
on 10/23/13 (Doc. A-216-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1616, (Ward 3) — Ojala Properties LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-200-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 89th Street, 1311, (Ward 16) — Jesse V. Dickerson, owner — appeal adopted on
10/23/13 (Doc. A-198-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

33
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Rental fees for meeting rooms — amend Section 571.88 — effective April 30, 2013 — rescind
BOC Res. 418-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
East 72nd Street improvements (St. Clair Ave. to North Marginal Rd.) — amend
Contract #PI2013*38 per BOC Res. 147-13, 419-13 — Division of Engineering and Construction
(BOC Res. 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Continuous Friction Measuring Equipment Unit — per Ord. 1054-12 to Dynatest Consulting,
Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 619-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Rental fees for meeting rooms — amend Section 571.88 — effective April 30, 2013 — rescind
BOC Res. 418-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
Roadway replace and repair — approve subcontractors — Contract #PI2013*017 per BOC
Res. 101-13, 371-13 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 617-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 96th Street (Ward 2) — PPN 136-02-107/108 — Chriss Cranston per Ord. 206-10 — amend
BOC Res. 381-10 (BOC Res. 622-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Matherson Avenue, 12700 (Ward 17) — PPN 019-16-098/099 — Emmanuel Akateh and
Margaret Nkengafac Akateh — amend BOC Res. 300-13 (BOC Res. 623-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District — various parcels on scattered sites Ward 9)
(BOC Res. 626-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Technical assistance services for Storefront Renovation Program — per Ord. 1300-13
to Carolyn Smith — Division of Neighborhood Development (BOC Res. 625-13) . . . . . . . .
Technical assistance services for Storefront Renovation Program — per Ord. 1300-13
to Cathy Sabolik — Division of Neighborhood Development (BOC Res. 624-13) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
East 72nd Street improvements (St. Clair Ave. to North Marginal Rd.) — amend
Contract #PI2013*38 per BOC Res. 147-13, 419-13 — Office of Capital Projects
(BOC Res. 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 96th Street (Ward 2) — PPN 136-02-107/108 — Chriss Cranston per Ord. 206-10 — amend
BOC Res. 381-10 (BOC Res. 622-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Matherson Avenue, 12700 (Ward 17) — PPN 019-16-098/099 — Emmanuel Akateh and
Margaret Nkengafac Akateh — amend BOC Res. 300-13 (BOC Res. 623-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District — various parcels on scattered sites Ward 9)
(BOC Res. 626-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Elgin street sweeper parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 621-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

1753

The City Record

34

October 30, 2013

Board of Control — Neighborhood Development Division
Technical assistance services for Storefront Renovation Program — per Ord.
to Carolyn Smith — Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 625-13)
Technical assistance services for Storefront Renovation Program — per Ord.
to Cathy Sabolik — Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 624-13)

1300-13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744
1300-13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Continuous Friction Measuring Equipment Unit — per Ord. 1054-12 to Dynatest Consulting,
Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Rental fees for meeting rooms — amend Section 571.88 — effective April 30, 2013 — rescind
BOC Res. 418-12 — Divisions of Burke Lakefront Airport and Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (BOC Res. 618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
Roadway replace and repair — approve subcontractors — Contract #PI2013*017 per BOC
Res. 101-13, 371-13 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 617-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general and infrastructure
support, Cisco VoIP — modify Contract #PS2012*010 per BOC Res. 531-11 — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 615-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general support and billing
system support — modify Contract #PS2011*304 per BOC Res. 532-11, 533-12 —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Technical assistance services for Storefront Renovation Program — per Ord. 1300-13
to Carolyn Smith — Division of Neighborhood Development, Dept.
of Community Development (BOC Res. 625-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Technical assistance services for Storefront Renovation Program — per Ord. 1300-13
to Cathy Sabolik — Division of Neighborhood Development, Dept.
of Community Development (BOC Res. 624-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
East 72nd Street improvements (St. Clair Ave. to North Marginal Rd.) — amend
Contract #PI2013*38 per BOC Res. 147-13, 419-13 — Division of Engineering and
Construction, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Roadway replace and repair — approve subcontractors — Contract #PI2013*017 per BOC
Res. 101-13, 371-13 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 617-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general and infrastructure
support, Cisco VoIP — modify Contract #PS2012*010 per BOC Res. 531-11 — Division of
Water (BOC Res. 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general support and billing
system support — modify Contract #PS2011*304 per BOC Res. 532-11, 533-12 — Division of
Water (BOC Res. 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
HVAC system maintenance, repair/replacement — approve subcontractors — Contract
#RC2012*49 per BOC Res. 209-12 (BOC Res. 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Elgin street sweeper parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — all bids rejected —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 621-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
HVAC system maintenance, repair/replacement — approve subcontractors — Contract
#RC2012*49 per BOC Res. 209-12 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Continuous Friction Measuring Equipment Unit — per Ord. 1054-12 to Dynatest Consulting,
Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Board of Control — Water Division
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general and infrastructure
support, Cisco VoIP — modify Contract #PS2012*010 per BOC Res. 531-11 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 615-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general support and billing
system support — modify Contract #PS2011*304 per BOC Res. 532-11, 533-12 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

1754

October 30, 2013

The City Record

35

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Clement Avenue, 7005, (Ward 12) — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Incorporated,
owner — appeal granted and adopted on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 25th Street, 1417, (Ward 3) — Cement Masons Local 404, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-220) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 3600, (Ward 8) — The International Union of Operating Engineers Local 18,
owner — appeal heard on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 1843, (Ward 3) — Alex Preedy, owner — appeal rescheduled to 11/18/13
on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-222) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Road, 1130, (Ward 10) — The 1130 Ivanhoe Road Group, LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-199) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Norway Avenue, 15800, (Ward 19) — Mark and Tracy Benton, owners — appeal heard on
10/28/13 (Cal. 13-221) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 16569, (Ward 11) — Calabrese Cement & Masonry Contractors, owner —
appeal dismissed 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-82) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road, 4931, (Ward 13) — Ioannis Vasilakis, owner, and Ishaq Alhamzeh, prospective
tenant — appeal postponed to 12/02/13 on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-219) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trowbridge Avenue, 3630, (Ward 14) — Richfield Sunset LLC, owner, and Melissa Martinez,
prospective tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-141) . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard, 2163, (Ward 16) — Cuyahoga County Land Bank, owner, and Jason
Brooks, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 10/28/13 (Cal. 13-216) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 123rd Street, 927, (Ward 9) — Paul McPherson, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/11/13
(Cal. 13-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 4113, (Ward 12) — Gerald Durante, owner, and Elricco Lynch, prospective
tenant — appeal to be heard on 11/11/13 (Cal. 13-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 1891, (Ward 7) — The Cleveland Clinic, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/11/13 (Cal. 13-237) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Roaf, 806, (Ward 3) — Sandy Banks, LLC, owner, and Jeffrey Rutushin, agent —
appeal to be heard on 11/11/13 (Cal. 13-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744

Bonds
Airport System Revenue Bonds — $ 100,000,000 One Hundred Million — Finance Department —
Port Control Department (O 1113-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $4,830,000 — Finance Department (O 1463-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $3,660,000 — Finance Department
(O 1464-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $27,110,000 — Finance Department (O 1465-13) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731

Capital Projects
Community Development — amend Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 — UCAA LIMITED —
Upper Chester Target Area (O 1466-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
Grand Ave., S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1297-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 14)
(R 1471-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Case Western Reserve University (CWRU)
Veterans Treatment Docket — Residential Program — Grant — Cuy. Co. Common Pleas Court —
Finance Department — Y-Haven (O 1342-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

City of Cleveland Bids
Diesel engines, 6-cylinder and engines for snow blowers — Department of Port Control —
per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due November 27, 2013 (advertised 10/30/2013 and 11/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748
Pneumatic tire tow motors — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 943-11 — bid due November 22, 2013 (advertised 10/30/2013
and 11/6/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748
Sewer test tee inspection, installation and snaking — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 541.13 — bid due November 20,
2013 (advertised 10/30/2013 and 11/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

City Planning Commission
Chester Ave. (between East 97th St. and East 101st St.) — change Use, Area and
Height Districts (Ward 07) (O 1461-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
Grand Ave., S.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 1297-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 14) (R 1471-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

1755

The City Record

36

October 30, 2013

Cleveland Foundation
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — establish
Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Adopt Healthy Cleveland nutrition guidelines — Cleveland Foodbank, Children’s Hunger
Alliance (R 1472-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
DTG Operations, Inc. dba Dollar Rent A Car and Thrifty Rental Car — concession agreements —
provide car rental and shuttle services to the travelling public (O 1467-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
Surveys, data collection, reporting, benchmarking of customer service satisfaction —
Airports Council International — renew Contract No. PS 2012-076 (O 1468-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Codified Ordinances
Barber Shops, Body Piercing, And Tattooing Establishments; Fee — amend Section
225.08 (O 1234-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electronic reporting requirements for secondhand dealers and pawnbrokers — amend Sections
676.08 and 681.05 (O 1473-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exempting special event carriage businesses from license requirement — amend
Sections 447.02 and 447.08 (O 1474-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Increase Penalties for Procuring, Soliciting and Prostitution — amend Section(s) 619.08,
619.09 and 619.10 (O 1353-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Common Pleas Court
Veterans Treatment Docket — Operations Program — Grant — Finance Department (O 1341-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
Veterans Treatment Docket — Residential Program — Grant — Finance Department —
Y-Haven — CWRU (O 1342-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Community Development
Capital Projects — amend Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 — UCAA LIMITED — Upper
Chester Target Area (O 1466-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program — agreement — Downtown Cleveland Residents
Association (Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corp.) (Ward 03 CRF) (O 1440-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Concession Agreements
DTG Operations, Inc. dba Dollar Rent A Car and Thrifty Rental Car — provide car rental
and shuttle services to the travelling public (O 1467-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Condolences
Marano, Daniel (R 1482-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Congratulations
Quincy, III, Rev. James P. (R 1477-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Contracts
Body cameras and ancillary equipment — Upgrades, replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software updates and training (O 1413-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development and Capital Projects — amend Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 —
UCAA LIMITED — Upper Chester Target Area (O 1466-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveys, data collection, reporting, benchmarking of customer service satisfaction —
Airports Council International — renew Contract No. PS 2012-076 (O 1468-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veterans Treatment Docket — Residential Program — Grant — Cuy. Co. Common Pleas Court —
Finance Department — Y-Haven — CWRU (O 1342-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1750
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1749
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Convention Center/Mall B and C
Sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland Foundation — establish Cleveland College
Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

1756

October 30, 2013

The City Record

37

Economic Development Department
Harvard Rd. and Mill Pond Dr. — Sell City-owned property — PROPSTONE, LLC — behavioral
hospital (O 1470-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Fees
Barber Shops, Body Piercing, And Tattooing Establishments; Fee — amend Section
225.08 (O 1234-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
DTG Operations, Inc. dba Dollar Rent A Car and Thrifty Rental Car — concession agreements —
provide car rental and shuttle services to the travelling public (O 1467-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Finance Department
Airport System Revenue Bonds — $ 100,000,000 One Hundred Million — Port Control
Department (O 1113-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $4,830,000 (O 1463-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland
Foundation — establish Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No.
683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $3,660,000 (O 1464-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $27,110,000 (O 1465-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 47 and 49 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Human
Resources Department (O 1437-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veterans Treatment Docket — Operations Program — Grant — Cuy. Co. Common Pleas Court
(O 1341-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veterans Treatment Docket — Residential Program — Grant — Cuy. Co. Common Pleas Court —
Y-Haven — CWRU (O 1342-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1749
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1727
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1731
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1750
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Fire Division
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Grants
Labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland — agreement — Greater Cleveland
Partnership — Office of Equal Opportunity (O 1469-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
Veterans Treatment Docket — Operations Program -Cuy. Co. Common Pleas Court —
Finance Department (O 1341-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
Veterans Treatment Docket — Residential Program — Cuy. Co. Common Pleas Court —
Finance Department — Y-Haven — CWRU (O 1342-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Health Department
Barber Shops, Body Piercing, And Tattooing Establishments; Fee — amend Section
225.08 (O 1234-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

House Bill
Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource Standard and Renewable Portfolio Standard and opposing
Substitute SB. 58 and HB. 302 (R 1476-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Human Resources Department
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 47 and 49 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Finance
Department (O 1437-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750

Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 2301 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1460-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
State Rd., 4301(Patio) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1208-13
(Ward 13) (R 1443-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., 3349 (1st fl. & rear) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1166-13 (Ward 17) (R 1438-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4713 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1209-13 (Ward 18)
(R 1462-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Neighborhood Equity Funds
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. — Community Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

1757

The City Record

38

October 30, 2013

Office Of Equal Opportunity (O.E.O)
Labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland — grant agreement —
Greater Cleveland Partnership (O 1469-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Port Control Department
Airport System Revenue Bonds — $ 100,000,000 One Hundred Million — Finance
Department (O 1113-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
DTG Operations, Inc. dba Dollar Rent A Car and Thrifty Rental Car — concession agreements —
provide car rental and shuttle services to the travelling public (O 1467-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
Surveys, data collection, reporting, benchmarking of customer service satisfaction —
Airports Council International — renew Contract No. PS 2012-076 (O 1468-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Professional Services
Body cameras and ancillary equipment — Upgrades, replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software updates and training (O 1413-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Prostitution
Increase Penalties for Procuring, Soliciting and Prostitution — amend Section(s) 619.08,
619.09 and 619.10 (O 1353-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Purchases And Supplies Division
Harvard Rd. and Mill Pond Dr. — Sell City-owned property — PROPSTONE, LLC — behavioral
hospital (O 1470-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Recognition
Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week/Fabulous Food Show (R 1480-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Imperial Avenue Eleven — 4th Anniversary (R 1479-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
See, Charles R. (R 1478-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Resolution of Support
Adopt Healthy Cleveland nutrition guidelines — Cleveland Foodbank, Children’s Hunger
Alliance and Cleveland Clinic (R 1472-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource Standard and Renewable Portfolio Standard and opposing
Substitute SB.58 and HB. 302 (R 1476-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
CBS News organization and 60 Minutes television news magazine to hire African-Americans
and Hispanics as contributing correspondents (R 1475-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource Standard and Renewable Portfolio Standard and opposing
Substitute SB.58 and HB. 302 (R 1476-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Safety Department
Body cameras and ancillary equipment — Upgrades, replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software updates and training (O 1413-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750
Electronic reporting requirements for secondhand dealers and pawnbrokers — amend Sections
676.08 and 681.05 (O 1473-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 47 and 49 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 1437-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750

Senate Bills
Ohio’s Energy Efficiency Resource Standard and Renewable Portfolio Standard and opposing
Substitute SB. 58 and HB. 302 (R 1476-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Street Vacation
Grand Ave., S.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 05) (O 1297-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

1758

October 30, 2013

The City Record

39

West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 14) (R 1471-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Ward 01
Quincy, III, Rev. James P. — Congratulations (R 1477-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Ward 02
CBS News organization and 60 Minutes television news magazine to hire African-Americans
and Hispanics as contributing correspondents (R 1475-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Ward 03
Adopt Healthy Cleveland nutrition guidelines — Cleveland Foodbank, Children’s Hunger
Alliance and Cleveland Clinic (R 1472-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Rd., 2301 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1460-13) . . . . . .
Exempting special event carriage businesses from license requirement — amend
Sections 447.02 and 447.08 (O 1474-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program — agreement — Downtown Cleveland Residents
Association (Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corp.) — Community Development
Department (Ward 03 CRF) (O 1440-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Ward 04
Imperial Avenue Eleven — 4th Anniversary — Recognition (R 1479-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Ward 05
Grand Ave., S.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 1297-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Ward 06
Carrington, Elder Paul — Appreciation (R 1481-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Imperial Avenue Eleven — 4th Anniversary — Recognition (R 1479-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Ward 07
Chester Ave. (between East 97th St. and East 101st St.) — change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1461-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Ward 08
See, Charles R. — Recognition (R 1478-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Ward 09
CBS News organization and 60 Minutes television news magazine to hire African-Americans
and Hispanics as contributing correspondents (R 1475-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Ward 10
Increase Penalties for Procuring, Soliciting and Prostitution — amend Section(s) 619.08,
619.09 and 619.10 (O 1353-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749

Ward 11
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Ward 13
State Rd., 4301(Patio) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1208-13 —
liquor permit (Ward 13) (R 1443-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Ward 14
CBS News organization and 60 Minutes television news magazine to hire African-Americans
and Hispanics as contributing correspondents (R 1475-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1471-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

1759

The City Record

40

October 30, 2013

Ward 15
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Ward 16
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Ward 17
West 117th St., 3349 (1st fl. & rear) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1166-13 — liquor permit (R 1438-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748

Ward 18
Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week/Fabulous Food Show — Recognition (R 1480-13) . . . . .
Marano, Daniel — Condolence (R 1482-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4713 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1209-13 — liquor permit
(R 1462-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. — Community Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Zoning
Chester Ave. (between East 97th St. and East 101st St.) — change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 1461-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

1760

