The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Twenty-Third, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

17

Board of Control

17

Civil Service

19

Board of Zoning Appeals

21

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
22
Public Notice

22

Public Hearings

22

City of Cleveland Bids

22

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

22

Committee Meetings

23

Index

23

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Daryl W. McGinnis, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Charles J. Bauernschmidt – Courtroom 12A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5211

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY OCTOBER 21, 2013
The City Record

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Reed, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Polensek.
COMMUNICATION

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

File No. 1442-13.
From Council Member Joe Cimperman, Ward 3 – Recusing himself
from votes involving ParkWorks
and L.A.N.D. Studio. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1441-13.
RE:
#23840410005.
Transfer
of
Location Application, D1 D2. E B
Pizza, LLC, d.b.a. Guys Pizza, 17109
Lorain
Avenue.
(Ward
19).
Received.
File No. 1449-13.
RE: #0951150. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5 D6. Brickstone
Restaurant, LLC, d.b.a. Brickstone,
2217 East 9th Street. (Ward 3).
Received.

______________

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 21, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, Martin J. Sweeney, Jay Westbrook, Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Chief of Staff
Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government Affairs Valarie J. McCall,
Chief
of
Regional
Development
Chris Warren, Chief of Education
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Communications Maureen Harper, Chief of
Sustainability
McGowan,
Jenita
Chief
of
Public
Affairs
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Bender, Butler,
Cox, Rush, Rybka, Southerington,
Nichols,
Brown,
Fumich,
and
Ambroz and Acting Directors Vilkas
and Daniely.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Imam Abbas Ahmad, First Cleveland Masjid, Cleveland, Ohio (Ward
4). Pledge of Allegiance.

1693

Res.
No.
1450-13—Michael
Watkins.
Res. No. 1451-13—Delores W. “Dee”
Smith.
Res. No. 1452-13—Emma James
Patterson.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1453-13—Mary Florence
(Holt) Hilliard (100th birthday).
Res. No. 1454-13—Norris Ernestine
Daniels (100th birthday).
Res. No. 1455-13—Marie Cheatham
(100th birthday).
Res. No. 1456-13—Catholic Charities Office of Migration and Refugee
Services (65th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1457-13—Empowering and
Strengthening
Ohio’s
People
(ESOP).
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1458-13—Broadway Slavic
Village P-16 Initiative — “Lights On
After School”.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 1459-13—National Dyslexia Awareness Month.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1430-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the amendment to certain documents relating to a loan made by
the City to assist in the redevelopment of the former Longwood Apartments pursuant to Ordinance No.
1574-2000 passed September 25, 2000
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Section 203 of the Housing and
Community
Development
Amendments of 1978, 12 U.S.C. §1701z-11, as
amended by Section 101(b) of the
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994 and regulations
promulgated
pursuant
thereto, in order to further the provision of decent, safe, sanitary, and
affordable housing in the City, the
United States Department of Housing
and
Urban
Development
(“HUD”) heretofore determined to
(i) dispose of certain real property
and the improvements thereon located in the City known as Longwood
Apartments (the “Original Property”) and (ii) make available an upfront grant (the “Grant”) in an
amount not to exceed $25,160,000 in
connection with demolition, rebuilding, redevelopment and other related development of the Original Property; and
Whereas, in order to provide for
the redevelopment in the most economically efficient manner possible,
HUD (i) conveyed title to the Original Property to the City pursuant
to a Special Warranty Deed dated
September
27,
2000
(the
“HUD
Deed”), and (ii) made the Grant
available to the City pursuant to an
UpFront
Grant
Agreement
(the
“UpFront Agreement”) dated September 28, 2000 between HUD and
the City; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1574-2000, passed September 25,
2000 (the “Authorizing Legislation”)
the City entered into the Grant
Agreement; and
Whereas, an affiliate of the Borrower (the “Developer”) purchased
the Original Property from the City
pursuant to a Redevelopment Agreement between the City and the
“Redevelopment
Developer
(the
Agreement”), which property was
transferred to the Developer by an
Official Quitclaim Deed recorded in
Cuyahoga County AFN 20000920724
on September 29, 2000, and the
Developer agreed to redevelop, or to
cause the redevelopment by its permitted assignees of, a portion of the
Original Property, together with
additional property conveyed by the
City (the “City Property”), into a
multifamily housing complex containing a total of 629 affordable living units, together with related
amenities and supporting facilities
(the “Project”) in up to four phases;
and
Whereas, as authorized by the
Authorizing Legislation, in order to
further the redevelopment of the
Project in accordance with the
terms of HUD Deed, the Grant
Agreement and the Redevelopment

Agreement (the “Controlling Documents”), the City agreed to loan the
proceeds of the Grant (the “City
Loan”) to the Developer or its permitted assignees pursuant to an
UpFront Loan Agreement between
the City and the Developer (the
“Original Loan Agreement”) (the
City Loan Agreement, as amended
from time to time, shall be referred
to as the “Agreement”); and
Whereas, Arbor Park Phase Two
Associates, L.P. (the “Borrower”)
was formed to develop, on behalf of
the Developer, the second Phase of
the Project, consisting of 206 affordable living units, together with
related amenities and supporting
facilities including a management
office, community center, and supportive services (“Phase Two Project”) on a portion of the Original
Property and the City Property (collectively, the “Phase Two Project
Site”) and in connection therewith,
the Developer conveyed the Phase
Two Project Site to the Borrower;
and
Whereas, pursuant to the Developer’s request and in order to enable
the Borrower to develop the Phase
Two Project, the City (1) loaned
$8,240,000 of the Grant proceeds (the
“Phase Two Loan”) to the Borrower
and (2) agreed that Borrower could
use $3,100,000 of the Grant proceeds
to purchase all of the $3,100,000
County of Cuyahoga, Ohio Subordinate Multifamily Housing Mortgage
Bonds,
2003
Series
B
Revenue
(Arbor Park Phase Two Associates,
L.P.
Project)
(the
“Outstanding
Bonds”) and (3) accepted an assignment of the Outstanding Bonds and
reduced the Loan to $5,140,000; and
Whereas, the Borrower’s obligation to repay the Consolidated Phase
Two Loan was evidenced by a
Promissory Note in the amount of
$8,240,000 which was reduced to
$5,140,000 upon the City’s receipt of
the Outstanding Bonds (the “Original Note”) and secured by an OpenEnd Mortgage and Security Agreement from Borrower to the City,
dated as of June 1, 2003 and recorded in the Official Cuyahoga County
Records
as
Instrument
No.
200306100021
(the
“Original
City
Loan Mortgage”) and the Borrower’s
obligation to repay the Outstanding
Bonds was secured by an Open-End
Mortgage and Security Agreement
from Borrower to National City
Bank, as Trustee, dated as of June
1, 2003 and recorded in the Official
Cuyahoga County Records as Instrument No. 200306100020 (the “Original
Bond Mortgage”);
Whereas, in addition to the Phase
Two Loan and the Outstanding
Bonds, the Borrower financed the
Phase Two Project with the proceeds of an FHA-insured loan funded
through
the
issuance
of
$15,500,000
County
of
Cuyahoga,
Ohio Multifamily Housing Mortgage
Revenue
Bonds,
2003
Series
A
(Arbor Park Phase Two Associates,
L.P. Project) (the “Senior Loan
Bonds”); and
Whereas, as a requirement of the
Senior Loan Bonds, the Original City
Mortgage, the Original Bond Mortgage and other documents securing
the Phase Two Loan and the Outstanding Bonds (collectively, the
“City Loan Collateral Documents”)
were subordinated to the mortgage
and other documents securing the
Senior Loan Bonds; and

1694

October 23, 2013
Whereas, in order to reduce the
interest expense incurred by the
Borrower and thereby make additional funds available to pay costs
of operating and maintaining the
Phase Two Project, the Borrower is
refinancing the Senior Loan Bonds
with the proceeds of a $15,500,000
FHA-insured loan from Forest City
Capital Corporation (the “Senior
Lender”),
pursuant
to
Section
223(a)(7) of the National Housing
Act (the “New Senior Loan”); and
Whereas, as a condition to the
making of the New Senior Loan, the
City is being asked to (1) extend
the maturity date of the Phase Two
Loan and the Outstanding Bonds to
a date not earlier than the maturity date of the New Senior Loan and
(2)
re-subordinate
the
interests
granted to the City in the City Loan
Collateral Documents; and
Whereas, in order to allow for
administrative and operating efficiencies going forward, the Borrower has asked the City to consolidate
the Outstanding Bonds and the
Phase Two Loan into a single loan;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. The Mayor, the Director
of Community Development, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to execute and
deliver, accept, or consent to, as the
case may be, those documents and
instruments necessary or appropriate
to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Ordinance, including to (i) amend the terms of the Original Note, the Original City Loan
Mortgage, the Original Bond Mortgage and the other City Collateral
Loan Documents, (ii) subordinate the
City Loan and the Outstanding Bonds
to the Senior Loan and (iii) if it is
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be in the best financial
interests of the City, consolidate the
Outstanding Bonds with the City
Loan, all in a manner consistent with
the foregoing recitals.
Section 2. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined that
all formal actions of this Council and
of any of its committees concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 3. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2012 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2012 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the

October 23, 2013
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 4. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 5. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
matters authorized herein.
Section 6. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members
elected to Council, it shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1431-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the 2011 Law
Enforcement Terrorism Protection
Program; and authorizing an agreement with Cuyahoga County to
implement the grant; and to amend
Contract No. 69633 with Cogent, Inc.
to provide additional AFIS equipment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $184,600.75, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from Cuyahoga

The City Record
County to conduct the 2011 Law
Enforcement Terrorism Protection
(“LETPP”) Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the award
letter and agreement for the grant
contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the award letter and
agreement for the grant, presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in File No. 1431-13-A,
is made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Cuyahoga County
to implement the grant as described
in the file.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 69633
with Cogent, Inc. to extend the term
of the contract to run coterminous
with this grant term to provide additional AFIS equipment.
Section 7. That the cost of the contract or contracts, or contract amendment or amendments shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1432-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance approving the Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2012 recommendations.
Whereas, under Section 5709.85 of
the Revised Code, if a municipal corporation grants an exemption from
taxation, they shall create a Tax
Incentive Review Council (“TIRC”);
and
Whereas, one of the functions of
the TIRC is to annually review all
agreements
granting
exemptions
from property taxation and to make
recommendations to either continue,
modify, or cancel their agreements
based on various factors, including
fluctuations in the business cycle
unique to the owner’s business; and

1695

5
Whereas, in compliance with Section 5709.85 of the Revised Code, the
City of Cleveland has created a
TIRC and the TIRC has made written recommendations on exemptions
to be approved by the legislative
authority; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.85 of
the Revised Code, once a legislative
authority receives written recommendations from a tax incentive
review
council,
that
legislative
authority
has
sixty
days
after
receiving the recommendations, to
hold a meeting and vote to accept,
reject, or modify, all or any portion
of the recommendations; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the TIRC’s Year
2012 recommendations contained in
File No. 1432-13-A are approved.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1433-13.
By
Council
Members
Pruitt,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 129.241 relating to materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to repair, replace
and maintain various valves, actuators and appurtenances.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 129.241 to read as follows:
Section 129.241 Purchase of Materials, Equipment, Supplies, and Services Necessary to Repair, Replace
and Maintain Various Valves, Actuators and Appurtenances
(a) The Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to enter into one (1) or
more standard purchase or requirement contracts duly let to the lowest
and best bidder after competitive bidding for a period to be determined by
the Director for materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to
repair, replace and maintain various
controls, valves, actuators and appurtenances. Any purchase made under
this section shall be made by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
and paid from the annual appropriations made for such purpose.
(b) That under Section 108(b) of
the Charter, the purchases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements

6
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one (1) or more contracts with
the vendors selected through that
cooperative process.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1444-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.65 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 401-12,
passed March 26, 2012, to eliminate
the eligibility date for domestic
partner benefits and offer equal benefits for all employees.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
already provides health and other
employment benefits to employee’s
domestic partners registered with
the City’s domestic partnership registry on or before March 30, 2012;
and
Whereas, this Council wants to
eliminate this eligibility date to
qualify for benefits and the partial
employee contribution requirement
for inclusion of a domestic partner,
in order to make benefits truly
equal for all employees: and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 171.65 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 401-12, passed March 26, 2012, is
amended as follows:
Section 171.65 Domestic Partner
Benefits
(a) For the purpose of the following benefits, employees and their
domestic partners registered pursuant to Chapter 109 and in full compliance with the domestic partnership
criteria established in that chapter,
shall be treated in the same manner
as City employees and their spouses:
hospitalization/health
insurance,
prescription drug program, dental
care insurance, sick leave and funeral
leave for as long as the employees
and domestic partners remain registered and remain in full compliance
with the domestic partnership criteria.
(b)
An
employee’s
registered
domestic partner and the partner’s
family shall be considered as “family
members” with respect to City of
Cleveland nepotism policies.
(c) The Director of Personnel and
Human Resources shall make rules to
govern the provision of domestic partner benefits, which rules shall comply
with this section and which shall outline the evidence that shall be necessary to substantiate that the employee and domestic partner are in full
compliance with the domestic part-

The City Record
nership criteria established in Chapter 109. The rules shall also provide
reporting requirements for a change
in relevant circumstances and for
submission of evidence as necessary
for periodic review of compliance.
Section 2. That existing Section
171.65 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. Ordinance No. 401-12,
passed March 26, 2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Employment Affirmative Action
and Training, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1445-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 187.15 and 187.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
77-08, passed February 4, 2008, to
add gender identity and expression
to
employment
nondiscrimination
laws for goals and compliance of
contractors.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 187.15 and
187.16 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-08, passed February
4, 2008, is amended as follows:
Section 187.15 Employment; Nondiscrimination; Goals of Contractors
(a) No Contractor shall Discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race,
religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression,
national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era or disabled
veteran status. Contractors shall take
affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed and that
employees are treated during employment without regard to race, religion,
color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic
group or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status. As used in this chapter,
“treated” means and includes without
limitation the following: recruited
whether by advertising or other
means; compensated, whether in the
form of rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; selected for training,
including apprenticeship, promoted,
upgraded, demoted, transferred, laid
off and terminated. Contractors shall
post in conspicuous places available
to employees and applicants for
employment, notices to be provided
by the hiring representative of contractors setting forth the provisions
of this nondiscrimination clause.
(b) Within sixty (60) days after
entering into a Contract, each Contractor shall have filed with the
Director a written affirmative action
program, approved by the Administrator, containing standards and pro-

1696

October 23, 2013
cedures ensuring that the Contractor,
by specified affirmative actions with
regard to its employees, facilities and
performance of the Contract, affords
all qualified employees and applicants for employment equal opportunities in the Contractor’s recruitment,
selection, and advancement processes.
(c) Each Contractor’s affirmative
action program shall contain the following components:
(1) A diagnostic component that
includes quantitative analyses comparing the composition of the Contractor’s workforce to the composition of the Cleveland Contracting
Market employment pool according to
the most current census data available, grouped by EEO occupations.
(2) Each affirmative action program shall contain placement goals
as follows:
A. For each non-construction Contract, placement goals equal to the
availability percentage for women or
minorities where the percentage of
women or minorities employed by the
Contractor in a particular job group is
less than would reasonably be expected given their percentage availabilities in the corresponding Cleveland
Contracting Market employment pool.
Placement goals are objective targets
reasonably attainable by applying a
good-faith effort to implement all
aspects of the affirmative action program; they are not inflexible quotas.
Placement goals do not authorize or
require a Contractor to grant a preference to any individual or adversely
affect an individual’s employment
status for an unlawful discriminatory
reason.
B. For each construction Contract,
establish placement goals for minorities and women for each trade
involved in the performance of the
Contract equal to the goals established by the Director. Placement
goals are objective targets reasonably attainable by applying a goodfaith effort to implement all aspects
of the affirmative action program;
they are not inflexible quotas. Placement goals do not authorize or require
a Contractor to grant a preference to
any individual or adversely affect an
individual’s employment status for an
unlawful Discriminatory reason.
(3) Identification of problem areas
through analysis of the Contractor’s
employment process to determine if it
affords or incorporates, or contains
impediments to, equal employment
opportunities.
(4) Action-oriented programs consisting of practical steps the Contractor will implement to address any
identified problem areas or the underutilization of women or minorities in
relation to their availability in the
relevant labor pool.
(5) Internal auditing and reporting
systems that monitor and examine
the impact the Contractor’s employment decisions and compensation systems have on women and minorities
and their progress toward achieving
a workforce that would be expected
in the absence of discrimination.
(6) Policies, practices, and procedures that the Contractor will implement to ensure that all qualified
applicants and employees enjoy equal
opportunity in recruitment, selection,
advancement, and every other term
and privilege associated with employment.

October 23, 2013
(7) Any additional requirements
the
Administrator
may
require
through the Regulations or on a caseby-case review of a Contractor’s proposed affirmative action program.
Section 187.16 Compliance with
Employment Goals
(a) Each Contractor shall be eligible for a certificate of employment
compliance required under Section
187.07 when the Administrator, from
the required submittals and other
information supplied by the Contractor, determines that the Contractor is
complying with this Code and the
Regulations.
(b) Each Contractor shall submit to
the Administrator and implement a
written affirmative action program
containing the components required
under division (c) of Section 187.15.
When the Administrator is satisfied
that the Contractor has complied with
the Code and its regulations, the
Administrator shall issue a written
“certificate of employment compliance.”
(c) Immediately upon a finding
that sixty (60) days after entering
into a Contract, a Contractor has no
affirmative action program, has deviated substantially from an approved
affirmative action program, or has
Discriminated against any employee
or applicant for employment because
of race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, age, Disability,
ethnic group or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status, the Administrator shall proceed according to division (f) of Section 187.17. Anything in
the foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, the Director shall not
impose sanctions or remedial action
against a Contractor solely because
the Contractor fails to achieve the
established placement goals.
(d) By notice in writing to the
Director and the Clerk of Council, the
Mayor may waive compliance with
the employment goals established
under division (c) of Section 187.15
with respect to a specific Contractor
seeking the award of a specific Contract when, in the Mayor’s sole judgment, the action is necessary in the
best interests of the City and its citizens.
Section 2. That existing Sections
187.15 and 187.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 77-08,
passed February 4, 2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Equal
Opportunity, Finance, Law; Committees on Employment Affirmative
Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1446-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 667.01 and 663.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1260-08, passed November 30, 2009,
Section 667.99 as amended by Ordinance No. 128-97, passed January 27,

The City Record
1997, and Section 663.99 as amended
by Ordinance No 133-64, passed May
17, 1965, to strengthen the unlawful
discriminatory public accommodations
practices
and
unlawful
employment practices based on gender identity and expression, and to
increase penalties.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
and employers should allow full
access to facilities without qualification to all citizens and employees,
including those denied access to
bathrooms, showers, locker rooms or
dressing facilities consistent with
their gender identity or expression;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 667.01 and
663.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1260-08, passed November 30, 2009, Section 667.99 as amended
by Ordinance No. 128-97, passed January 27, 1997, and Section 663.99 as
amended by Ordinance No 133-64,
passed May 17, 1965, are amended as
follows:
Section 667.01 Unlawful Discriminatory Public Accommodations Practices
It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice in a place of public
accommodation for any person who is
the owner, operator, lessee, manager,
administrator, servant, agent or
employee of any place of public
accommodation:
(a) To refuse, deny, segregate, discriminate or make a distinction,
directly or indirectly, in offering its
goods, services, facilities or accommodations to any person because of race,
religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression,
national origin, age, disability, ethnic
group, or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status of such person;
(b) To refuse, deny, segregate, separate, discriminate, or make a distinction, directly or indirectly in any way,
against any person in the full and
equal use and enjoyment of the services, facilities, privileges, advantages or enforcement powers of the
City, or any unit or office thereof,
because of race, religion, color, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status of such person;
(c) For any person, whether or not
specifically prohibited from discriminating under any provisions of this
section, to aid, abet, incite, compel, or
coerce the doing of any act declared
to be an unlawful discriminatory
practice by this section, or to attempt
to do so;
(d) To coerce, intimidate, threaten,
retaliate against, or otherwise interfere with any person, or attempt to do
so, because he or she has promoted
the provisions of this section, or
because he or she has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any
proceeding, investigation or hearing
authorized
by
Sections
667.011
through 667.013 or by appropriate
state or federal law;
(e) Nothing in this section shall
prohibit a religious or denomination-

1697

7
al institution, organization, society or
association or any nonprofit charitable or educational organization that
is operated, supervised or controlled
by or in connection with a religious
organization, from limiting its offerings of goods, services, facilities and
accommodations to persons of the
same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, provided that
such offerings mentioned above are
not, in fact, offered for commercial
purposes;
(f) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the establishment of programs
or other public accommodations
designed and operated for a particular age group. However, such public
accommodations shall not discriminate on the basis of race, religion,
color, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or expression, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, or
Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status;
Section 663.04 Exemptions from
Provisions
Exemptions from the requirements
of this chapter shall be:
(a) Any employer of less than four
(4) persons; nor shall members of the
immediate family of an employer be
included in determining the number
of employees;
(b) Any religious organization or
institute whose membership or service is limited to persons of a single
religious faith;
(c) Any institution organized for
educational purposes that is operated,
supervised, or controlled by such a
religious association, corporation, or
society;
(d) Any private organization having a purely social or fraternal purpose;
(e) Any type of employment where
religion, religious creed or nationality would usually and normally be considered an essential qualification of
employment;
Section 667.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any of the
provisions of Section 667.05 or 667.01
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not
less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or sentenced to not less
than three (3) months imprisonment,
or both. The minimum fine and
imprisonment to be imposed by a
court for a violation of Section 667.05
or 667.01 is mandatory and may not be
suspended in whole or in part.
(b) Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and imprisoned for not
more than thirty (30) days.
Section 663.99 Penalty
Whoever violates any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall
be fined not less than one thousand
dollars ($1000.00) and sentenced to
not less than three (3) months imprisonment.
Section 2. That existing Sections
667.01 and 663.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1260-08,
passed November 30, 2009, Section
667.99 as amended by Ordinance No.
128-97, passed January 27, 1997, and
Section 663.99 as amended by Ordinance No 133-64, passed May 17, 1965,
are repealed.

8
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Relations Board, Finance, Law; Committees on Employment Affirmative
Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1447-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Chapters 157 and
663 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
and enacted by various ordinances,
and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Sections
157.05 through 157.15, 157.99 and
667.051, relating to the Community
Relations Board’s duties, and civil
remedies and penalties for employment discrimination complaints.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 157.02 and
157.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March 14,
1994, Section 157.03, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 240-45, passed March 4,
1945, Section 663.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1065-B-82, passed March
7, 1983, and Section 663.06, as enacted
by Ordinance No.1333-64, passed May
17, 1965, are amended to read as follows:
Section 157.02 Executive Director
The Community Relations Board
shall nominate and the Mayor shall
appoint an Executive Director who
shall serve until removed by the
Mayor with the concurrence of a
majority of the Board. Upon nomination of the Executive Director, the
Board shall appoint as its staff such
technical and office personnel and
assistants as it may deem necessary
within the appropriation made available for such purpose. All such
appointments, except one (1) assistant and one (1) secretary to the
Executive Director, shall be made in
conformity with the civil service provisions of the Charter.
Section 157.03 Duties of Executive
Director
Under the direction of the Community Relations Board the Executive
Director shall supervise and control
the staff. He or she shall:
(a) Serve as Secretary of the Board
and of any advisory committee or subcommittee which may be created;
(b) Maintain contacts with all
groups throughout the community
which are concerned with interracial
and other intergroup understanding,
report to the Board regarding the
activities of these groups, be a source
of accurate and reliable data on the
acute problems in the field of interracial and other intergroup understanding and join one (1) or more of these
groups as a member if he or she so
chooses, with the approval of the

The City Record
Board; any expense of membership is
to be charged against the Board budget;
(c) Implement the decisions of the
Board and on the advice of the Board
shall work in cooperation with the
directors of all departments of the
Municipal
government
in
the
improvement of services to eliminate
whatever sources of interracial friction may exist; work to remove
inequalities which may be related to
minority group or other status on
such important problems as housing,
recreation, education, law enforcement, vocational guidance and related matters; conduct such educational
activities, institutes, meetings and
prepare such reading materials as
will lead to better public relations;
(d) Cooperate with the Director of
the Office of Equal Opportunity in
those instances when their duties are
concurrent;
(e) Carry out responsibilities as
directed under Sections 157.04 and
157.05 of this chapter.
Section 157.04 Duties and Powers of
the Board
(a) The Community Relations
Board shall promote amicable relations among all racial, religious,
nationality, ethnic and cultural and
other groups within the community;
take appropriate steps to deal with
conditions which strain relationships;
aid in the coordination of the activities of private organizations concerned with these relationships;
assemble, analyze and disseminate
authentic and factual data relating to
interracial and other intergroup relationships. It shall have power to publish and distribute at public expense
such factual material as it shall deem
necessary or desirable.
(b) The Board shall investigate on
its own initiative any complaint, situation or occurrence which may strain
relationships.
(c) The Board shall coordinate its
efforts to achieve its duties with
those efforts of the Office of Equal
Opportunity to carry out the duties set
forth in Section 123.08 of these Ordinances.
(d) Aid in seeing that no person is
deprived of equal services by city government by reason of discrimination
based on race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group, or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status of such person.
(e) The Board shall have the
responsibility to administer the provisions of Chapter 663, Fair Employment Practices, and to adjudicate
complaints alleging violation of any
section of Chapter 663 and/or Section
667.05, Unlawful Discrimination in
Employment. Including and in addition to the powers enumerated in Sections 663.05 and 663.06, the Board shall
have and may exercise the following
powers to implement the purposes of
this chapter and Chapter 663:
(1) To hold adjudicative hearings,
make findings of fact, issue orders,
enforce such orders and seek judicial
and/or administrative relief with
respect to any such complaints in
accordance with the provisions of this
chapter;
(2) To subpoena witnesses, compel
their attendance, administer oaths,
take sworn testimony and, in connection therewith, to require the produc-

1698

October 23, 2013
tion for examination of any documents relating to any matter under
investigation or in question before
the Board, and enforce such powers
by proper petition to any court of competent jurisdiction;
(3) To adopt such rules and regulations as the Board may deem necessary or desirable for the conduct of its
business and to carry out the purposes of this chapter and Chapter 663;
(4) To do such other acts as are necessary and proper to perform those
duties with which the Board is
charged under this chapter, including
the provision of referral services for
the community;
(5) To collect, analyze and study
the results of investigations made
under this chapter and report to the
Mayor and City Council on or before
March 1 of each calendar year on the
working of this chapter for the purpose of advising on and recommending amendments to this chapter;
(6) To conduct a continuing program of education and community
organization throughout the City;
(7) To initiate an investigation
without the filing of an official complaint, provided a majority of the
Board elects to proceed based upon
reasonable cause to believe that violations of this chapter and/or Chapter
663 are occurring or have occurred.
The Board shall have the same powers following this initiated investigation as it has with an investigation
based on the filing of a complaint;
(8) To enter into cooperative agreements with other governmental agencies to effectuate the purposes of this
chapter and Chapter 663;
(9) To refer persons allegedly
aggrieved by unlawful discriminatory employment practices to the Ohio
Civil Rights Commission or other governmental or private agencies, as
appropriate;
(10) If the Board has reasonable
cause to believe that any person or
persons are engaged in unlawful discriminatory employment practices as
described in Sections 663.02, 663.03,
and/or 667.05, the Board may refer the
matter to the Director of Law for commencement of a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction on behalf of
the City. The Director of Law may
seek any relief considered necessary
to ensure the full enjoyment of the
rights granted by this chapter and
Chapter 663.
Section 663.05 Administration
The administration of this chapter
shall be the responsibility of the Community Relations Board, which Board
shall cooperate with the Office of
Equal Opportunity in those instances
where the two (2) entities have concurrent duties.
In addition to any powers heretofore conferred on this Board under
Chapter 157, the Board shall have
power to:
(a) Make technical studies and prepare and disseminate educational
materials relating to discrimination
and ways and means of reducing and
eliminating it in areas other than
employment;
(b) Make specific and detailed recommendations to the interested parties as to the method of eliminating
discrimination in areas other than
employment;
(c) By March 1 of each year, or more
often if so requested, render to Council and the Mayor a report of its activities;

October 23, 2013
(d) Adopt such reasonable rules
and procedures as are necessary to
affect the broad purposes of this chapter in accordance with Chapter 157.
Section 663.06 Complaints, Procedure, Hearings, Enforcement, and
Remedies
Any aggrieved person may allege
that a violation of Sections 663.02
and/or 663.03 has occurred by filing a
complaint with the Community Relations Board in the time, manner and
form prescribed under Section 157.03,
and shall have all rights to the procedures, hearings, enforcement, and
remedies
under
Sections
157.04
through 157.14.
Section 2. That Sections 157.02 and
157.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March 14,
1994, Section 157.03, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 240-45, passed March 4,
1945, Section 663.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1065-B-82, passed March
7, 1983, and Section 663.06, as enacted
by Ordinance No.1333-64, passed May
17, 1965, are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 157.05 through 157.15, 157.99 and
667.051 as follows:
Section 157.05 Complaints
(a) Any aggrieved person may
allege that a violation of Sections
663.02, 663.03, and/or 667.05 has
occurred or is about to occur by filing
with the Community Relations Board,
within one hundred and eighty (180)
days of the alleged violation, a sworn,
written complaint setting forth his or
her grievance. The complaint shall
state the name and address of the
aggrieved party (the “complainant”),
the name and address of the
person(s) alleged to have committed
a violation of Sections 663.02, 663.03,
and/or 667.05 (the “respondent”), a
description of the discriminatory incident and the particular facts and
other information as may be required
by the Board. A complaint may be
amended at any time before the hearing is conducted under Section 157.08
and thereafter only with permission
of the Community Relations Board.
On the filing of a complaint, the Community
Relations
Board
shall
acknowledge the receipt of the complaint and serve notice to the complainant, which notice shall also contain information as to the time limits,
notice of procedural rights and obligations and choice of forum provided
in this chapter.
(b) Within ten (10) days after a
complaint has been received by the
Community Relations Board, it shall
serve or cause to be served, in person
or by certified mail, a copy of the complaint on the respondent alleged to
have committed a violation of Sections 663.02, 663.03 and/or 667.05.
Along with the service of the complaint, the Community Relations
Board shall advise the respondent, in
writing, of his or her procedural
rights and obligations under this
chapter. The respondent may file a
written verified answer to the complaint with the Community Relations
Board within ten (10) days after
receipt of notice of the complaint, and
thereafter only with permission of the
Community Relations Board.

The City Record
(c) Within ten (10) days after identification of an additional respondent
under this section, the Community
Relations Board shall serve a notice
identifying the alleged discriminatory employment practice and advising
the additional respondent of the procedural rights and obligations of
respondents under this section, and a
copy of the original complaint.
Section 157.06 Investigation of Complaints
(a) Investigations shall be commenced by the Executive Director or
his or her designee or designees with
assistance from Community Relations Board staff members within
thirty (30) days after a complaint has
been received. Conciliation, under
Section 157.07, shall be attempted
beginning with the filing of the complaint and ending with the filing of a
charge or a dismissal of the complaint. If conciliation has failed and
the investigation has been completed,
the Executive Director shall determine that:
(1) There are reasonable grounds
to believe that a violation of Sections
663.02, 663.03, and/or 667.05 has
occurred, in which case the Executive
Director shall issue a charge stating
the facts forming the basis for the
finding of reasonable grounds to
believe discrimination occurred or is
about to occur under Sections 663.02,
663.03, and/or 667.05. The Executive
Director shall then forward the complaint to the Community Relations
Board for a hearing, under Section
157.08 or
(2) There are no reasonable
grounds to believe that a violation of
Section 663.02, 663.03, and/or 667.05
has occurred or was about to occur, in
which case the Executive Director
shall prepare and issue a written
notice of dismissal, within five (5)
days of the finding of no reasonable
grounds, by serving a copy of the
notice of dismissal by certified mail
on the parties. The notice of dismissal
shall advise the complainant of his or
her right of appeal under this section.
Within fourteen (14) days of receipt
of notice of dismissal, the complainant may request, in writing,
reconsideration by the Community
Relations Board of the dismissal. By a
majority vote, the Community Relations Board may affirm or reverse the
dismissal. If the Community Relations Board reverses, it shall refer the
complaint to the Executive director
for conciliation and other actions consistent with this chapter.
(b) The Executive Director shall
complete the investigation within one
hundred (100) days after receipt of
the complaint, unless impracticable,
in which case the Community Relations Board shall inform, in writing,
the complainant and the respondent
of the reasons why the investigation
cannot be completed within the time
prescribed.
(c) The Executive Director and his
or her designee and Community Relations Board staff may be assisted in
the investigation by a fair employment agency or other appropriate
organization or person under contract
with the City.
Section 157.07 Conciliation Process
(a) During the period beginning
with the filing of such complaint and

1699

9
ending with the filing of a charge or a
dismissal by the Community Relations Board, the Board shall, to the
extent feasible, engage in conciliation with respect to such complaint.
As appropriate, the Executive Director or his or her designee and Community Relations Board staff shall:
(1) Notify the complainant and
respondent of the time, place and date
of the conciliation conference at least
ten (10) days prior thereto, and both
parties shall appear at the conciliation conference in person or by attorney; and
(2) Attempt to resolve the complaint by methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion with all
interested parties and such representatives as the parties may choose to
assist them. Conciliation conferences
shall be informal and nothing said or
done during such conferences shall be
made public unless the parties agree
thereto in writing. The terms of conciliation agreed to by the parties shall
be reduced to writing and incorporated into a consent agreement to be
signed by the parties, subject to
approval by the Community Relations
Board. The terms of the conciliation
agreement shall be made public,
unless the complainant and the
respondent agree otherwise and the
Community Relations Board determines that disclosure is not required
to further the purposes of this chapter.
(b) A conciliation agreement may
provide for binding arbitration of the
dispute arising from the complaint.
Any such arbitration that results
from a conciliation agreement may
award appropriate relief, including
monetary relief.
Section 157.08 Hearings
(a) After the complaint is received
by the Community Relations Board
pursuant to division (a)(1) of Section
157.06, the Community Relations
Board shall, upon due and reasonable
notice to all parties, hold a hearing on
the complaint. Parties to the hearing
shall be the complainant and respondent and such other persons as the
Community Relations Board may
deem appropriate. The hearing shall
be open to the public. At the time it
determines to hold such hearing, the
Community Relations Board shall
serve upon the respondent a summons
requiring the attendance of named
persons and the production of relevant documents and records.
(b) At any time prior to the conclusion of the hearing, the parties may
request the Community Relations
Board to issue subpoenas for individuals or documents in the Community
Relations Board’s name. Failure to
comply with a summons or subpoena
shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. The parties may appear
before such Board in person or by
duly authorized representative and
may be represented by legal counsel.
The parties shall have the right to
present witnesses and to cross-examine witnesses, and all testimony and
evidence shall be given under oath or
by affirmation.
Section 157.09 Hearing Decisions
(a) Within thirty (30) days of the
close of the hearing, the Community
Relations Board shall deliver its decision, which shall be rendered in the

10
form of a written order and which
shall include findings of fact and a
statement as to whether the respondent has violated or was about to violate Sections 663.02, 663.03, and/or
667.05 and any remedial actions as the
Community Relations Board may
order under Section 157.11. The order
shall be served upon the parties by
certified mail within fifteen (15) days
of the date of the decision. The order
shall be available for public inspection, and a copy shall be provided to
any person on request and payment of
reproduction costs.
(b) If the Community Relations
Board is unable to make a recommendation within the time frame indicated in section (a), the Community
Relations Board shall notify the
Executive Director, the complainant
and the respondent in writing of the
reasons for not doing so.
Section 157.10 Injunctive Relief
At any time after the filing of a
complaint referred to in Section
157.05, the Community Relations
Board may request the City’s Director
of Law to petition the appropriate
court for temporary or preliminary
relief pending final determination of
the proceedings under this chapter, or
as otherwise necessary to carry out
the purposes of this chapter, including an order or decree restraining the
respondent from doing or causing any
act which would render ineffectual
any order or action by the Community
Relations Board.
Section 157.11 Remedial Action
(a) If the Community Relations
Board finds that the respondent has
not violated or was not about to violate Sections 663.02, 663.03, and/or
667.05, its order under Section 157.09
shall dismiss the complaint.
(b) If the Community Relations
Board finds that the respondent has
violated or was not about to violate
Sections 663.02, 663.03, and/or 667.05,
its order under Section 157.09 shall
provide for the taking of remedial
action, as it deems appropriate, which
may include but not be limited to:
(1) Directing the respondent to
cease and desist from violations of
Sections 663.02, 663.03, and/or 667.05
and to take affirmative steps as necessary to effectuate the purposes of
this chapter and Chapter 663;
(2) Initiating, at the Community
Relations Board’s expense, an appropriate court action for the enforcement of Sections 663.02, 663.03, and/or
667.05, and for other or further relief
as the court may deem appropriate
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, compensatory damages,
punitive damages to the complainant
and/or attorneys’ fees and costs
incurred by the complainant and/or
the Community Relations Board
and/or the City; court action shall be
required in the event the respondent
does not voluntarily comply with
remedial actions ordered by the Community Relations Board;
(3) Initiating proceedings based on
violation of federal or state law
and/or regulations;
(4) Initiating proceedings with the
State of Ohio, where applicable, to
revoke, suspend or refuse to renew
the license of any person found to
have violated any provision of Sections 663.02, 663.03, and/or 667.05;

The City Record
(5) Directing the respondent to
reimburse the complainant and/or the
City, as applicable, for his or her actual and reasonable expenses incurred
and to be incurred as a result of each
violation found including, but not limited to, back pay or differential pay
and reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs;
(6) Directing the respondent to
reimburse the City for its actual reasonable direct expenses incurred and
to be incurred as a result of each violation found including reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs;
(7) Assessing compensatory damages, as appropriate, or arrange to
have adjudicated in court, at the Community Relations Board’s expense,
the award of compensatory damages
against the respondent;
(8) Assessing civil penalties, as
appropriate, or arranging to have
adjudicated in court at the Community Relations Board’s expense, the
award of punitive damages against
the respondent. For purposes of this
chapter, civil penalties are defined as
penalties
assessed
against
the
respondent to vindicate the public
interest in an amount:
A. Not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for a first violation;
and
B. Not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any subsequent violation.
(9) Such other further relief as the
Community Relations Board may
deem appropriate for enforcement of
Sections 663.02, 663.03, and 667.05.
(c) The Community Relations
Board shall make a final administrative disposition of a complaint within
one (1) year after the complaint has
been filed, unless it is impracticable
to do so, in which case the complainant and respondent shall be notified, in writing, of the reasons why
disposition of the complaint cannot be
made within the time prescribed.
(d) Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the City, at its
own expense, from initiating appropriate court action on behalf of the
complainant in order to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(e) The complainant and the
respondent shall have the right to
appeal an adverse final determination by the Board to the Cuyahoga
County Common Pleas Court under
RC Chapter 2506, or in another forum
or court of competent jurisdiction as
provided by law.
Section 157.12 Judicial Relief
The City, the complainant, or any
person aggrieved by a violation of
any provision of this chapter may at
any time within one (1) year from the
date of the alleged violation and in
lieu of proceeding with the administrative process set forth in this chapter, apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction for appropriate relief
including, but not limited to:
(a) Injunctive relief or an order otherwise compelling compliance with
this chapter;
(b) Compensatory damages and/or
punitive damages;
(c) Reasonable attorneys’ fees and
costs to complainant and/or the City
as applicable; and/or
(d) Such other or further relief as is
appropriate for the enforcement of
this ordinance and elimination of violations thereof.

1700

October 23, 2013
The City shall notify the complainant of all statutes of limitations
for the filing of complaints in state
and/or federal court.
Section 157.13 Pattern or Practice of
Discrimination
Whenever the Community Relations Board has reasonable cause to
believe that any person or persons are
engaged in a pattern or practice of
resistance to a person’s or persons’
full enjoyment of the rights granted
by Sections 663.02, 663.03, and 667.05,
and of this chapter, or that any group
of persons has been denied any of the
rights granted by such section and
the denial raises an issue of public
policy, the Community Relations
Board may refer the matter to the
Director of Law for commencement of
a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction on behalf of the City. The
Director of Law may seek any relief
considered necessary to ensure the
full enjoyment of the rights granted
by this chapter.
Section 157.14 Additional Remedies
This chapter shall not prevent the
City or any person from exercising
any right or seeking any remedy to
which that person might otherwise be
entitled, or from filing any complaint
with any other agency or court of law
or equity.
Section 157.15 Severability
If any provision of this chapter is
held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of the chapter shall not be invalidated.
Section 157.99 Penalties
(a) Whoever violates division (b)
of Section 157.08 of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(b) The Community Relations
Board may not initiate any criminal
proceeding arising under this chapter
or Sections 663.02, 663.03 or 667.05.
However, nothing in this Section
157.99 shall prevent such Board from
referring a possible criminal violation and penalty to the appropriate
authorities and the Director of Law
for prosecution under Sections 663.99
and 667.99.
Section 667.051 Complaints, Procedure, Hearings, Enforcement, and
Remedies
Any aggrieved person may allege
that a violation of Section 667.05 has
occurred by filing a complaint with
the Community Relations Board in
the time, manner and form prescribed
under Section 157.05, and shall have
all rights to the procedures, hearings,
enforcement, and remedies under Sections 157.04 through 157.14.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Relations Board, Finance, Law; Committees on Employment Affirmative
Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.

October 23, 2013

The City Record

11

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1434-13.
By Council Members Cummins and Zone.
An ordinance establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District on the north and south sides of Clark Avenue between
W. 56th Street and W. 41st Street as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2457).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the lands located on the north and south sides of Clark Avenue between W. 56th Street and W. 41st
Street as shown shaded and outlined on the attached map are hereby designated as a Pedestrian Retail Overlay.
Section 2. That the overlay designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2457, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1435-13.
By Council Members Cummins and Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of lands located on the north and south sides of Clark Avenue Between Train
Avenue and W. 41st Street from Semi-Industry to General Retail Business (Map Change No. 2464).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Clark Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W.
48th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 473 in the Taylor Hoyt Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 1,
Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of W. 48th Place;

1701

12

The City Record

October 23, 2013

Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 48th Place and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 46th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot Number 394 in the aforementioned Taylor & Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly
line of Sublot No. 670 in the H. Stone Addition shown on the recorded plat in Volume 1 Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line
of Sublot No. 573 in the aforementioned H. Stone Addition;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Howlett Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot
No. 580 in the aforementioned H. Stone Addition;
Thence southerly along said prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with a line drawn parallel to and 80 feet easterly of the easterly line of Sublot No. 556 in the aforementioned H. Stone Addition;
Thence southerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 338 in the Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber & Selden Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
27 Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 41st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 41st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 355 in the aforementioned Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber & Selden Re-Subdivision also known as
Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 007-28-035;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
Sublot No. 358 in the aforementioned Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber & Selden Re-Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Selden Court;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 44th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 44th St. to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot Number 5 in the Rhodes, Hartnell, Barber and Selden Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
5, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly
prolongation of the northerly line of Vacated Milford Court;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of W. 46th St.;
Thence northerly along said centerline and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Clark Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 56th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 56th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the Conrad Marquart Re-Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 40 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
Sublot No. 41 in the Diodate Clark Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of
Sublot No. 40 in the aforementioned Diodate Clark Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W. 58th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 58th Street and along it northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of Train Avenue;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the centerline of Train Court;
Thence easterly, northeasterly and easterly along said westerly prolongation and said centerline, continuing along
its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W. 56th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 56th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Clark Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 48th Street and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2464, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1702

October 23, 2013

The City Record

13

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1436-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the southwest side of E. 41st Street north
of Superior Avenue to Semi-Industry, a ‘C’ Area District, and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2460).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Superior Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 41st Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of E. 41st Street to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of
the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Franjo Yerman by deed dated November 21, 1995 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V95100350020 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 104-07050;
Thence southwesterly along said northeasterly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the southwesterly line thereof;
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with
the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Josephine Valus ETAL by deed dated May 12, 2006 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200605120688, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 104-07054;
Thence northeasterly along said southerly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of E. 41st Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of E. 41st Street to its intersection with the centerline of Superior Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Semi-Industry District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2460, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1703

The City Record

14

October 23, 2013

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1437-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance To amend Sections 47 and 49 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as
amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011:
Section 47, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, Ord. No. 1045-12, passed August 8, 2012,
and Ordinance No. 121-13, passed July 28, 2013, and Ordinance No. 1344-13, passed September 23, 2013; and
Section 49, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, are amended to read as follows:
Section 47. Hourly Rate - Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Effective
Date
Asbestos Worker (Insulator) .................................................8/1/13
Boiler Maker .................................................................................1/1/13
Bricklayer ......................................................................................5/1/13
Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................5/1/13
Carpenter ........................................................................................5/1/13
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................5/1/13
Cement Finisher ..........................................................................5/1/13
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................5/1/13
Electrical Worker .......................................................................4/29/13
Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................4/29/13
Glazier .............................................................................................5/1/13

1704

Minimum
$44.30
47.49
36.43
37.68
36.13
37.37
36.67
37.92
45.13
46.38
35.29

Maximum
$55.38
59.36
45.54
46.54
45.15
46.30
45.84
46.59
56.41
57.56
44.11

October 23, 2013
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

The City Record

Ironworker .....................................................................................5/1/13
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................5/1/13
Painter.............................................................................................6/3/13
Painter Foreman .........................................................................6/3/13
Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................5/1/13
Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................5/1/13
Plasterer .........................................................................................5/1/13
Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................5/1/13
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................5/1/13
Plumber Foreman .......................................................................5/1/13
Roofer ..............................................................................................4/28/13
Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................5/1/13
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................5/1/13

15
41.13
42.38
31.86
33.11
44.14
45.39
35.46
36.71
44.18
45.43
36.72
45.23
46.48

51.41
53.91
39.82
40.82
55.17
55.67
44.33
45.83
55.23
56.73
45.90
56.54
58.64

Section 49. Hourly Rate - MCEO
Effective May 1, 2012, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each
classification:

1.
2.
3.

Construction Equipment - Group A .....................................
Construction Equipment - Group B .....................................
Master Mechanic..........................................................................

Minimum
$38.92
$38.80
$39.30

Maximum
$48.65
$48.50
$49.12

Section 2. That the following Sections of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011:
Section 47, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, Ord. No. 1045-12, passed August 8, 2012,
and Ordinance No. 121-13, passed July 28, 2013, and Ordinance No. 1344-13, passed September 23, 2013; and
Section 49, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1439-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Bellaire
Puritas
Development
Corporation
for the West 138th Street San Diego
Community Garden Project through
the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective October 16, 2013
with the Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation for the West 138th
Street San Diego Community Garden
Project for the public purpose of promoting urban farming and community gardening activities for city of
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval

by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1440-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Downtown Cleveland Residents Association or with its fiscal agent Historic
Gateway Neighborhood Corporation
for the Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program through the use of
Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Downtown Cleveland Residents Association or with its
fiscal agent Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corporation for the Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program
for the public purpose of promoting
Cleveland’s downtown district for
commercial and residential reinvestment through the use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $10,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.

1705

Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1438-13.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
3349 West 117th Street, 1st floor and
rear, and repealing Resolution No.
1166-13, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 3349 West 117th
Street, 1st floor and rear, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, Permanent No. 1428979
by Resolution No. 1166-13 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and

16
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to Chief’s Headquarters, Inc.,
DBA HQ Lounge, 3349 West 117th
Street, 1st floor and rear, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, Permanent No. 1428979, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1166-13, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1443-13.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
4301 State Road and Patio, and
repealing Resolution No. 1208-13,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 4301 State Road
and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permanent No. 8725043 by Resolution No. 1208-13 adopted by the Council on September 16, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to Swagger Tavern, LLC, 4301
State Road and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 8725043, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1208-13, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1448-13.
By Council Members Polensek,
Sweeney, Zone, Mitchell, Kelley,
Westbrook, Cummins, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Keane, Miller, Pruitt and Reed.
An emergency resolution supporting H.B. 274, also known as “Goddard’s Law” which will toughen
Ohio’s
companion
animal
abuse
laws.
Whereas, currently in Ohio, abuse
of animals is only a first degree
misdemeanor, an absurd and often
meaningless penalty which, in most
cases means little or no jail time;
and
Whereas,
State
Representative
Bill Patmon, along with Dick Goddard and the Public Animal Welfare
Society are advocates of tougher
animal cruelty laws in Ohio;
Whereas, Representative Patmon
is a sponsor of House Bill 274, or
“Goddard’s Law” which will toughen
Ohio’s companion animal abuse laws
by making it a felony to knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports H.B. 274, also known as
“Goddard’s Law” which will toughen
Ohio’s companion animal abuse laws.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich,
Ohio House Representative Bill Patmon, William Batchelder, Speaker of
the Ohio House of Representatives,
Keith Faber, President of the Ohio
Senate, and to those representatives
and senators in the Ohio legislature
representing northeast Ohio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1353-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 619.08, 619.09 and 619.10 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 773-87, passed June 16, 1987, relating to penalties for procuring, soliciting and prostitution.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended byCommittees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:

1706

October 23, 2013
1. In the title, line 2; in Section 1,
line 1; and in Section 2, line 1, strike
“619.08, 619.09 and 619.10” and insert
in all three places “619.08 and
619.09”.
2. In the title, strike lines 5 and
6 in their entirety and insert “1987,
relating to penalties for procuring
and soliciting prostitution.”.
3. In Section 1, strike amended
Section 619.10 in its entirety.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1385-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
ZOLL Data Systems for the acquisition of one or more Rescue Net ePCR
Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS software licenses to implement a records
management system, including training, data migration, project management, deployment services, maintenance, technical support, and other
related services, for a period of one
year after the warranty on the software expires, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended byCommittees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1402-13.
By Council Members Keane, Pruitt,
K. Johnson, Kelley and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 683-09,
passed May 18, 2009, relating to the
sale of the Convention Center and
Malls B and C to the County to develop a Medical Mart, and authorizing
the Director of Finance to enter into a
Donor Advised Agreement with the
Cleveland Foundation in order to
establish, manage, and implement a
City College Scholarship Fund for
City residents.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended byCommittees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
9, last line, after “10 SF 120.” insert
“(RQS 0117, RL 2013-158)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed and Zone.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook, recused himself from the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1402-13.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

October 23, 2013
Ord. No. 1413-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of body cameras, including upgrades and replacement of damaged or obsolete equipment, managed storage, software
updates, training, support, warranty,
and maintenance for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended byCommittees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:43 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 28, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 16, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 16,
2013 at 10:40 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Others: R. Vilkas, Acting Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 606-13.
By Director Bender.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1080-99, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 22,
2000, and Board of Control Resolution No. 808-00, adopted December 6,
2000, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Public Utilities,
entered into City Contract No. 57651
with Montgomery Watson Americas,
Inc. to acquire implementation con-

The City Record

17

sultant services for the Citywide
Geographic Information System Program, for the various divisions of
City Government; and
Whereas, the Citywide Geographic Information System runs on the
Accela, Inc. software platform and,
support maintenance and licenses
must be renewed annually for proper use and support of the citywide
GIS software and applications; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Accela, Inc. to renew the necessary
software licenses and to obtain the
professional services necessary to
continue support and maintenance
for the citywide GIS software and
applications for one year starting
January 1, 2014; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid under the
license agreement with Accela, Inc.
including maintenance and support
services for the one-year term starting January 1, 2014, shall not exceed
$155,510.84.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Resseger,
Directors
Gehlmann,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 607-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction
Company,
Inc.
for
the
public
improvement of water main replacement for Drakefield Avenue, Shoreview Avenue, Mallard Avenue, Oriole Avenue and East 266th Street in
the City of Euclid, Ohio, including a
$284,845.52 contingency allowance.
all items, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on July 24, 2013, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1727-12,
passed February 4, 2013, upon a unit
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $3,133,300.67 is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Company, Inc. for
the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

The Vallejo Company,
Inc. (CSB/MBE)

$690,000.00
22.02%

Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc. (CSB/FBE)
$250,000.00
7.98%

1707

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 608-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of B & B Wrecking, Inc., for
the Demolition of City Facilities,
Package B base bid Item AC and
Optional Item 6, for the Office of
Capital Projects, received on March
6, 2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 747-13, passed July 10,
2013, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $67,700.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into contract for the improvement with the
bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the employment of the following subcontractors by B & B
Wrecking, Inc. is hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

OBON Trucking
$13,000.00

CSB/MBE
19.202%

Petty Group
$ 7,000.00

CSB/MBE
10.340%

Friedel Trucking
$ 6,000.00

CSB/FBE
8.863%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 609-13.
By Directors Cox and Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R. W. Clark Company,
Inc., for the West Side Market
Improvements Phases 3 and 4 for
the Departments of Public Works
and Capital Projects, received on
September 6, 2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 533-12, passed
June 4, 2012, for a gross price for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $1,466,762.00, for Base Bid
Items. A-F and optional items 1C,
3A, 3B, 3C, 4 and 5 and unit price
items 1, 2 and 3 is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Directors of Public
Works and Capital Projects are
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
W. Clark Company, Inc. is hereby
approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

M-A Building and Maintenance CSB
$ 20,280.00
1.383%
Gateway Electric
$342,000.00

CSB/MBE
23.317%

The City Record

18
Flooring Specialties
$ 21,400.00

Non-Certified
0.00%

R&R Mechanical
$153,000.00

Non-Certified
0.00%

SRD Builders
$ 30,955.00

Non-Certified
0.00%

Absolute Roofing
$235,720.00

Non-Certified
0.00%

R. J. Heating Company Non-Certified
$ 12,950.00
0.00%
Thomas Hall Excavating Non-Certified
$ 28,900.00
0.00%
Tomco Enterprises
$ 5,975.00

Non-Certified
0.00%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Resseger,
Directors
Gehlmann,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 610-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Industrial Energy Systems, Inc., for the Highland Park
Clubhouse Roof Improvements for
the Department of Public Works,
received on September 6, 2013, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 53412, passed June 4, 2012, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $144,930.00, for
Base Bid Items A-E and optional
items 2, 3 and 4 is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Industrial Energy Systems, Inc. is
hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Troutman Supply
$30,459.00
Pete & Pete Containers
$ 9,271.00

MBE/FBE
21.016%
CSB/FBE
6.397%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 611-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Millstone Management
Group, for the Cleveland Public
Auditorium Ground Floor and HVAC
Improvements for the Department of
Public Works, received on August
28, 2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 684-08, passed July 2, 2008,
for a gross price for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$429,986.00, for Base Bid Packages A
and B and Optional Items 2 and 3,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director

October 23, 2013

of Public Works is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Millstone
Management
Group
is
hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

RWJ Wiring
$22,500.00

CSB/MBE/FBE
5.233%

Relmec Mechanical LLC
$25,200.00

CSB/FBE
5.861%

Frank Novak & Sons
$ 1,400.00

CSB/FBE
0.326%

The Company Inc.
$46,25000

CSB
10.756%

R&D Heating and Cooling
Non-Certified
0
0%
Northeastern Refrigeration
Corp.
Non-Certified
0
0%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 612-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 121-19-092 located at 2315 East
103rd Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Bettie Ferrell has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Bettie Ferrell for
the sale and development of Perma-

1708

nent Parcel No. 121-19-092 located at
2315 East 103rd Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 613-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 133-18-049 located on 7509 Harvard Avenue in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Margaret A. Galka has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the Westerly half of parcel
for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Margaret A.
Galka for the sale and development
of the Westerly half of Permanent
Parcel No. 133-18-049 located on 7509
Harvard Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Cox, Butler, Acting
Directors
Gehlmann,
Resseger,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record

October 23, 2013
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE

19

previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2013
10/25/13 – 10/31/13

Announ- Exam Classi- Exam
cement Method fication
No.
118 EE

119 EE

120 EE

Assistant
Income Tax
Administrator
Contract &
Monitoring
Specialist
Grant
Administrator

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 118

Type

N/C

ASSISTANT INCOME TAX ADMINISTRATOR (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY

Open

N/C

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $26,273.96 — $89,367.64 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER
31, 2013.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, directs the day-today operations of the Division of Taxation. Enforces tax rules and regulations. Develops recommendations for
changes in tax policy. Plans, organizes, staffs, and directs, through
supervisors, a large number of
employees engaged in the analysis of
income tax returns. Develops and
maintains current written manuals
on work flow and procedures within
the tax division. Forecasts work flow
as a means of providing work schedules for peak and valley periods. Provides assistance and technical guidance to section supervisors on policy
as well as administrative and tax
matters. Conducts municipal income
tax training sessions. Assists division
head in the preparation of preliminary budget estimates. Assumes
responsibilities of Tax Administrator
as requested. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

Lease - from rental agency.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2013.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Master’s Degree in Business Administration from an accredited college or university is required.
Five years of full time paid experience in municipal income tax collection as well as two years of supervisory experience is required. Must be
proficient in Microsoft Office Suites
and various accounting software
packages. Must be knowledgeable
with Database Management Systems.
Must be able to lift and carry a minimum of thirty (30) pounds. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. A CPA is preferred.

Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes

1709

The City Record

20
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 119
CONTRACT & MONITORING SPECIALIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

the financial condition of third party
agencies. Provides technical assistance on HUD regulations, reporting
requirements, and contract compliance. Analyzes and processes program performance data and prepares
reports where required. Advises third
party agencies in accounting procedures and the preparation of financial
data based on HUD and City regulations and requirements. Performs
other duties as assigned by the Contract Administration Manager and
Assistant Manager. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

October 23, 2013
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 120
GRANT
COMP)

ADMINISTRATOR

(NON-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $24.67 per Hour.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $22,333.40 — $75,175.89 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 31, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Assists in the review and evaluation
of third party proposals for funding,
preparation of third party contracts
(including review and finalization of
budgets, goals, scope of services, and
performance measures as applicable), monitoring of program performance, and the review and processing
of monthly payment requests for all
third
party
agency
programs
assigned to the Contract Administration Section. Conducts site visits of
third party agencies and evaluates

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Social Work, Business or Public
Administration,
Management,
Accounting, Urban Studies, or other
related field is required. One year of
full time paid experience in the evaluation of financial reports and proposals for funding, and monitoring performance of third party non-profit
agencies programs and/or projects is
required. (Substitution: Two years of
experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking; A
Master’s Degree in Social Work, Business Administration, Management,
Accounting, Urban Studies, or other
related field may substitute for experience.) Must have excellent writing,
analytical, and communication skills.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required. Must own or have access
to a properly insured vehicle. The following are preferred: A working
knowledge of federal and state rules,
regulations as well as Community
Development Block Grants or other
federal programs; Extensive knowledge of Microsoft Office Suites,
Accounting, and Financial software
products; An understanding of social
services and the community development industry.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted

1710

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER
31, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Explores and maintains records of
possible grant sources. Prepares
grant applications and proposals,
ascertaining departmental needs,
determining staffing levels and budgets, and gathering other information

The City Record

October 23, 2013
necessary to the development of successful grant proposals. Reviews all
grant applications for conformity to
City of Cleveland grant policies and
procedures. Develops, submits, and
tracks relevant grant-related legislation. Monitors and evaluates grantfunded programs during the life of
the grant to ensure compliance to
grant conditions, funding source
requirements, and goal achievements.
Collects and maintains federally and
state mandated data unique to each
grant and prepares required reports.
Recommends, develops, and initiates
revisions
whenever
appropriate.
Tracks expiration of current grants
and submits renewal applications.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business, Accounting, or related field
from an accredited four year college
or university is required. Two years
of full time experience in grant writing and grant administration for a
governmental or non-profit organization is required. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking.) Must be computer proficient
and familiar with the Internet and
knowledgeable in Microsoft Office
Suite (Word, Excel, and Access). A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 30 pounds.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
October 23, 2013

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

units with an existing retail store
building, on a 35' x 198' lot in a C1
General Retail Business District;
proposing a zero front yard where
30 feet is required; no rear yard
depth contrary to a requirement for
20 feet; and no interior side yards
where 8 feet is required, pursuant to
Sections 357.04, Section 357.08(b)(2)
and Section 357.09(b)(c); with a
gross floor area of 6,647 square feet
proposed, contrary to 3,465 that is
the permitted maximum building
coverage according to Section 355.04;
and subject to Section 349.08, where
five (5) or more accessory off-street
parking spaces are provided and
located on a lot adjacent to a Residence District or adjoining a building that contains dwelling units,
such
parking
spaces
shall
be
screened with a material or a strip
of land at least 4 feet wide and
densely planted with shrubs that
form a dense screen all year round.
The wall, fence or shrubs shall be
at least 3 feet but not more than 6
feet 6 inches in height; and such
screening located within 25 feet of
the intersection of 2 or more streets
or an access driveway and a street
shall have a maximum height of 3
feet and a minimum height of 2 feet,
pursuant to the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-225: 17510 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 19)
West 176 Street, LLC, owner,
appeals to change use from storage
to retail stores on consolidated
parcels located in a C1 Shopping
Center District; contrary to Section
349.07(c)(3) a driveway width of 48
feet is proposed along West 176th
Street contrary to the maximum
width of 30 feet that is allowed; and
subject to Section 352.10 a landscape
strip 6 feet wide is required along
the frontages of Lorain Avenue and
West 176th Street; and the substitution of an existing nonconforming
use requires the Board of Zoning
Appeals approval according to provisions under Section 359.01 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-228: 4571 Niessen
Court (Ward 14)
Wilfredo Serrano, owner, appeals
to install approximately 100 linear
feet of 5 feet high ornamental fence
in the actual front yard of a 32.65'
x 100' parcel in a B1 Two-Family
District and subject to the regulations in Section 358.04(a) fence
height in an actual front yard shall
not exceed a height of 4 feet.
Calendar No. 13-229: 4575 Niessen
Court (Ward 14)
Wilfredo Serrano, owner, appeals
to install approximately 100 linear
feet of 5 feet high ornamental fence
in the actual front yard of a 32.65'
x 100' parcel in a B1 Two-Family
District and subject to the regulations in Section 358.04(a) fence
height in an actual front yard shall
not exceed a height of 4 feet.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-224: 2376 Professor
Avenue (Ward 3)
Shury, LLC, owner, appeals to add
new construction, three (3) dwelling

Calendar No. 13-230: 15321 Lydian
Avenue (Ward 19)
Joseph Beach, owner, appeals to
construct a new wood frame, one car
garage on a 41.84' x 100.65' parcel
in a B1 Two-Family District; contrary to Section 337.23(a) the pro-

1711

21
posed garage is located on the property line and not a minimum of 18
inches from all property lines; and
subject to Section 353.05, in a Residence District an accessory building
shall not exceed 15 feet in height or
its distance from a main building or
potential location of a main buildon
an
adjoining
premises,
ing
whichever is less, and the proposed
garage is located within 5 feet of a
main residence building; and under
the provisions in Section 359.03(b) a
nonconforming building or use more
than 50% destroyed or removed by
whatever cause, including acts of
God but not including malicious mischief or vandalism, shall not be
restored or replaced except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
Calendar No. 13-231: 2257 West 7th
Street (Ward 3)
Scot Plewacki, owner, appeals to
erect a 36' x 24' one-story frame,
detached garage with second floor
storage on a 33' x 140' lot in a B1
Two-Family District; proposing a lot
coverage of 1,200 square feet contrary to 650 square feet that is
allowed for an accessory garage
according to the provisions in Section 337.23(7)A of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
21, 2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar
No.
13-216:
2163
West
Boulevard
Cuyahoga
County
Land
Bank,
owner, and Jason Brooks, prospective purchaser, appealed to erect an
open, wooden front porch to a one
family dwelling in a B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-217: 7005 Clement
Avenue
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Incorporated appealed to
erect a two-story rear room addition
to a one family dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-220: 1417 East 25th
Street
Cement
Masons
Local
404
appealed to install approximately
202 linear feet of 6 feet high chain
link fence in actual front and side
street yards in a C1 Multi-Family
District.
Calendar No. 13-141: 3630 Trowbridge
Avenue
Richfield Sunset, LLC, owner, and
Melissa Martinez, prospective tenant, appealed to establish use as a
child care facility in a one-story
building located in a B1 Two-Family District; subject to conditions.

The City Record

22
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar 13-218: 12710 Miles Avenue
Badran, LLC appealed to establish
use as a used car dealership and
motor vehicle minor repair garage
in a B1 Two-Family District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED
Calendar No. 13-204: 2216 West 101st
Street postponed to November 11,
2013.
Calendar No. 13-214: 3506 Clark
Avenue postponed to November
11, 2013.
Calendar No. 13-187: A-AA Terry the
Plumber, LLC Contract Number
68787 postponed to December 16,
2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on October 14, 2013 were
adopted and approved on October 21,
2013.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-215: 1687 East 81st
Street
Dorothy Pitts appealed to install
approximately 14 linear feet of 6
feet high wooden fence in the actual side yard of a parcel in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 13-127: 2133 West 81st
Street
Moneeke Davis appealed to install
approximately 35 linear feet of 4
feet high chain link fence in the
actual front yard and 35 linear feet
of 5 feet high chain link fence in an
actual side yard of a parcel in a B1
Two-Family District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 13-195: 16605 Miles
Avenue
Columbo Enterprises, owner, and
Miles-FDRTS, prospective purchaser,
appealed to construct a retail store
on consolidated parcels in zoning
between C1 Local Retail Business
and C1 Multi-Family Districts.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
NO BIDS

October 23, 2013
Commercial
Revitalization
and
rebate, grant, and/or loan agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants; to enter into
agreements for eligible costs to community development corporations for
implementation of the Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Programs; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts for consulting services necessary to implement the grant.
Section 2. That the existing title of
Ordinance No. 660-13, passed May 20,
2013 is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 66013, passed May 20, 2013, is supplemented by adding new Section 7 to
read as follows:
Section 7. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide direct assistance to Storefront Renovation program applicants.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Community Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Community Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Community Development, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That existing Sections 7
and 8 of Ordinance No. 660-13, passed
May 20, 2013, are renumbered to new
“Section 8” and “Section 9”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 14, 2013.
Effective October 18, 2013.

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1300-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 660-13,
passed May 20, 2013; to supplement
the ordinance by adding new Section 7 authorizing the Director of
Community Development to hire consultants; and to renumber existing
Sections 7 and 8 to new Sections 8
and 9, relating to the Storefront
Renovation Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 660-13, passed May 20, 2013
is amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts for

1712

Ord. No. 1301-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 10 of Ordinance No.
692-11, passed June 6, 2011 and to
supplement the ordinance by adding
new Section 9a; and to authorize the
Director of Community Development
to accept and utilize repayments
under the Neighborhood Stabilization Program III.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 10 of
Ordinance No. 692-11, passed June 6,
2011 are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Neighborhood
Stabilization III Program shall be
administered generally in accordance
with the Executive Summary, placed
in File No. 692-11-B, which file shall

The City Record

October 23, 2013
also contain a description of the NSP
III program.
Section 10. That the cost of the contracts, expenses, and administrative
costs authorized in this ordinance
shall not exceed $6,793,290, plus program income, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 19 SF 628 and from the fund
or funds designated by the Director of
Finance to accept the repayments.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 10 of Ordinance No. 692-11, passed
June 6, 2011 are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 69211, passed June 6, 2011, is supplemented by adding new Section 9a. to read
as follows:
Section 9a. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of loans and other NSP III program
income and to deposit the monies into
a fund or funds to be determined by
the Director of Finance and to utilize
the repayments to make additional
expenditures under this ordinance
and are appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 14, 2013.
Effective October 18, 2013.

Ord. No. 1416-13.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation for the Holiday Food Gift Program through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Capital Funds.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective November 1, 2013
with the Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for the Holiday
Food Gift Card Program for the public purpose of providing food gift
cards to low-to-moderate income residents residing in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 14, 2013.
Effective October 18, 2013.

Ord. No. 1427-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Ordinance No. 891-05, passed July 13,
2005, relating to the vacation of a
portion of West 89th Street.

23
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 89105, passed July 13, 2005, is repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 14, 2013.
Effective October 18, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 21, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
Authorized Absence: J. Johnson,
Vice Chair.
11:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee: Present:
Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Sweeney. Authorized Absence: Brancatelli, Cleveland. Pro tempore: Westbrook.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — Cleveland Foundation —
establish Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09
(O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program — Downtown Cleveland Residents Association
(Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corp.) — Community Development Department
(Ward 03 CRF) (O 1440-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — Bellaire Puritas Development Corp. —
Community Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

Animals
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

1713

The City Record

24

October 23, 2013

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Demolition services — per Ord. 747-13 to B & B Wrecking, Inc. (BOC Res. 608-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
West Side Market improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Control — City of Euclid
Water main replacements (Drakefield Ave., Shoreview Ave., Mallard Ave., Oriole Ave. and
East 266th St.) — per Ord. 1727-12 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 103rd Street, 2315 (Ward 6) — PPN 121-19-092 — Bettie Ferrell (BOC Res. 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
Harvard Avenue, 7509 (Ward 12) — PPN 133-18-049 (westerly half) — Margaret A. Galka
(BOC Res. 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Board of Control — Highland Golf Course
Roof improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to Industrial Energy Systems, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 103rd Street, 2315 (Ward 6) — PPN 121-19-092 — Bettie Ferrell (BOC Res. 612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
Harvard Avenue, 7509 (Ward 12) — PPN 133-18-049 (westerly half) — Margaret A. Galka
(BOC Res. 613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Geographic Information System (city-wide) program project implementation — renew licenses —
Accela, Inc. per C.O. Sec. 181.102 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 606-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
Ground floor and HVAC improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Millstone Management Group —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 611-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Demolition services — per Ord. 747-13 to B & B Wrecking, Inc. — Office of Capital
Projects (BOC Res. 608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Clubhouse Roof improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to Industrial Energy Systems,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Auditorium ground floor and HVAC improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Millstone
Management Group — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 611-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water main replacements (Drakefield Ave., Shoreview Ave., Mallard Ave., Oriole Ave. and
East 266th St. in City of Euclid) — per Ord. 1727-12 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 607-13). . . . . . . . . . .
West Side Market improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Depts. of
Public Works and Capital Projects (BOC Res. 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Geographic Information System (city-wide) program project implementation — renew licenses —
Accela, Inc. per C.O. Sec. 181.102 (BOC Res. 606-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Water main replacements (Drakefield Ave., Shoreview Ave., Mallard Ave., Oriole Ave. and
East 266th St. in City of Euclid) — per Ord. 1727-12 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Highland Park Clubhouse Roof improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to Industrial Energy Systems,
Inc. (BOC Res. 610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
Public Auditorium ground floor and HVAC improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Millstone
Management Group (BOC Res. 611-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
West Side Market improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Office of
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Control — Water Division
Water main replacements (Drakefield Ave., Shoreview Ave., Mallard Ave., Oriole Ave. and
East 266th St. in City of Euclid) — per Ord. 1727-12 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 607-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

1714

October 23, 2013

The City Record

25

Board of Control — West Side Market
Improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Depts. of Public Works and
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Clark Avenue, 3506, (Ward 14) — Serrat Enterprises, owner, and Checkers
Drive-In Restaurants, prospective tenant — appeal postponed to 11/11/13 on 10/21/13
(Cal. 13-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clement Avenue, 7005, (Ward 12) — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Incorporated,
owner — appeal heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 25th Street, 1417, (Ward 3) — Cement Masons Local 404, owner — appeal heard on
10/21/13 (Cal. 13-220) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street, 1687, (Ward 7) — Dorothy Pitts, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
10/21/13 (Cal. 13-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kordiac, Terry, d.b.a. A-AA Terry the Plumber, LLC, a.k.a. Terry the Plumber,
Incorporated — — appeal postponed to 12/16/13 on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-187) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 12710, (Ward 2) — Badran, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/21/13
(Cal. 13-218) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 16605, (Ward 1) — Columbo Enterprises, owner, and Miles-FDRTS, Alan Berger,
prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-195) . . . . . . . . . . .
Trowbridge Avenue, 3630, (Ward 14) — Richfield Sunset LLC, owner, and Melissa Martinez,
prospective tenant — appeal heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-141) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 101st Street, 2216, (Ward 16) — Irina and Gheoghe Ciornei, owners, and Vasile
Balescu, tenant — appeal postponed to 11/11/13 on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 81st Street, 2133, (Ward 15) — Moneeke Davis, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
10/21/13 (Cal. 13-127) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard, 2163, (Ward 16) — Cuyahoga County Land Bank, owner, and Jason
Brooks, prospective purchaser — appeal heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-216) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Lorain Avenue, 17510, (Ward 19) — West 176 Street, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 11/4/13 (Cal. 13-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lydian Avenue, 15321, (Ward 19) — Joseph Beach, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/4/13 (Cal. 13-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niessen Court, 4571, (Ward 14) — Wilfredo Serrano, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/4/13
(Cal. 13-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niessen Court, 4575, (Ward 14) — Wilfredo Serrano, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/4/13
(Cal. 13-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Avenue, 2376, (Ward 3) — Shury, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/4/13
(Cal. 13-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2257, (Ward 3) — Scot Plewacki, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/4/13
(Cal. 13-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711

Capital Projects
West 89th St. — vacate a portion — repeal Ord. No. 891-05 — City Planning Commission
(Ward 16) (O 1427-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713

City Planning Commission
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District (Ward(s) 14 and 15)
(O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 41 St. (southwest side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 08) (O 1436-13) . . .
West 89th St. — vacate a portion — repeal Ord. No. 891-05 — Capital Projects Office (Ward
16) (O 1427-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713

Cleveland Foundation
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — establish
Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Codified Ordinances
Community Relations Board’s duties, and civil remedies and penalties for employment
discrimination complaints — amend various sections — enact Sections 157.05 through
157.15, 157.99 and 667.051 (O 1447-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
Discriminatory public accommodations practices and unlawful employment practices based
on gender identity and expressions — amend Sections 667.01 and 663.04, 667.99 and
663.99 (O 1446-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
Eliminate the eligibility date for domestic partner benefits and offer equal benefits for
all employees — amend Section 171.65 (O 1444-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696

1715

The City Record

26

October 23, 2013

Employment Nondiscrimination laws based on gender identity or expressions; Goals of
Contractors — amend Sections 187.15 and 187.16 (O 1445-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
Increase penalties for procuring, soliciting and prostitution — Amend Section(s) 619.08,
619.09 and 619.10 (O 1353-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — enact Section 129.241 — Water Division (O 1433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Communications
Recusal — Ordinances involving ParkWorks and L.A.N.D. Studio — Council Member
Cimperman — Public Works Department (Ward 03) (F 1442-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Community Development
Amend Ord. No. 660-13 — professional services — Storefront Renovation And Commercial
Revitalization Program — Rebate And Grant / Loan Agreements — Cleveland Action To
Support Housing (CASH) (O 1300-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 692-11 — Neighborhood Stabilization III Program — Finance Department
(O 1301-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arbor Park Phase II Refinancing — amend contract # 57340 (Ward 05) (O 1430-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Food Gift Program — food to low income and senior citizens — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (Ward 06 NCF) (O 1416-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program — agreement — Downtown Cleveland Residents
Association (Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corp.) (Ward 03 CRF) (O 1440-13) . . . . . . . .
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

Community Development Block Grant Program
Amend Ord. No. 660-13 — professional services — Storefront Renovation And Commercial
Revitalization Program — Rebate And Grant / Loan Agreements — Cleveland Action To
Support Housing (CASH) (O 1300-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712

Community Relations Board
Community Relations Board’s duties, and civil remedies and penalties for employment
discrimination complaints — amend various sections — enact Sections 157.05 through
157.15, 157.99 and 667.051 (O 1447-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698

Condolences
Patterson, Emma James (R 1452-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Smith, Delores W. “Dee” (R 1451-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Watkins, Michael (R 1450-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Congratulations
Catholic Charities Office of Migration and Refugee Services — 65th Anniversary (R 1456-13)
Cheatham, Marie — 100th Birthday (R 1455-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Daniels, Norris Ernestine — 100th Birthday (R 1454-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Empowering and Strengthening Ohio’s People (ESOP) (R 1457-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilliard, Mary Florence (Holt) -100th Birthday (R 1453-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1693
1693
1693
1693
1693

Contracts
Body cameras and ancillary equipment — Upgrades, replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software updates and training (O 1413-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Food Gift Program — food to low income and senior citizens — Community
Development Department — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 1416-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — enact Section 129.241 — Water Division (O 1433-13)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Convention Center/Mall B and C
Sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland Foundation — establish Cleveland College
Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Cuyahoga County
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program (LETPP), 2011 — Grant — Amend
Contract # 69633 with Cogent, Inc. (O 1431-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

1716

October 23, 2013

The City Record

27

Economic Development Department
Tax Incentive Review Council — Approve 2012 recommendations (O 1432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 692-11 — Neighborhood Stabilization III Program — Community Development
(O 1301-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland
Foundation — establish Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — amend Section 9 Ord. No.
683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 47 and 49 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Human
Resources Department (O 1437-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704

Fire Division
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Grants
Arbor Park Phase II Refinancing — amend contract # 57340 (Ward 05) (O 1430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program (LETPP), 2011 — amend Contract # 69633
with Cogent, Inc. — Cuyahoga County (O 1431-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Holidays
Holiday Food Gift Program — food to low income and senior citizens — Community
Development Department — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 1416-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713

Human Resources Department
Eliminate the eligibility date for domestic partner benefits and offer equal benefits for
all employees — amend Section 171.65 (O 1444-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 47 and 49 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Finance
Department (O 1437-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704

Liquor Permits
East 9th St., 2217 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1449-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 17109 — transfer of location application (Ward 19) (F 1441-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Rd., 4301(Patio) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1208-13
(Ward 13) (R 1443-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., 3349 (1st fl. & rear) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1166-13 — (Ward 17)(R 1438-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

Neighborhood Equity Funds (NEF)
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. — Community Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO)
Employment Nondiscrimination laws based on gender identity or expressions; Goals of
Contractors — amend Sections 187.15 and 187.16 (O 1445-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696

Professional Services
Amend Ord. No. 660-13 — Storefront Renovation And Commercial Revitalization Program —
Rebate And Grant / Loan Agreements — Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH)
(O 1300-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712
Body cameras and ancillary equipment — Upgrades, replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software updates and training (O 1413-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Prostitution
Increase penalties for procuring, soliciting and prostitution — Amend Section(s) 619.08,
619.09 and 619.10 (O 1353-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

1717

The City Record

28

October 23, 2013

Recognition
Broadway Slavic Village P-16 Initiative — “Lights on After School” (R 1458-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
National Dyslexia Awareness Month (R 1459-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Recusals
Recusal — Ordinances involving ParkWorks and L.A.N.D. Studio — Council Member
Cimperman — Public Works Department (Ward 03) (F 1442-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Resolution of Support
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Safety Department
Body cameras and ancillary equipment — Upgrades, replacement of damaged or obsolete
equipment, managed storage, software updates and training (O 1413-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program (LETPP), 2011 — Grant — amend Contract
# 69633 with Cogent, Inc. — Cuyahoga County (O 1431-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 47 and 49 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 1437-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704

Street Vacation
West 89th St. — vacate a portion — repeal Ord. No. 891-05 — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 1427-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713

Taxes
Tax Incentive Review Council — Approve 2012 recommendations — Economic Development
Department (O 1432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Utilities Department
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — enact Section 129.241 — Water Division (O 1433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Ward 01
Watkins, Michael — Condolence (R 1450-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Ward 02
Broadway Slavic Village P-16 Initiative — “Lights on After School” — Recognition (R 1458-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Smith, Delores W. “Dee” — Condolence (R 1451-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Ward 03
Catholic Charities Office of Migration and Refugee Services — 65th Anniversary —
Congratulations (R 1456-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Relations Board’s duties, and civil remedies and penalties for employment
discrimination complaints — amend various sections — enact Sections 157.05 through
157.15, 157.99 and 667.051 (O 1447-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discriminatory public accommodations practices and unlawful employment practices based
on gender identity and expressions — amend Sections 667.01 and 663.04, 667.99 and
663.99 (O 1446-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 2217 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1449-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Eliminate the eligibility date for domestic partner benefits and offer equal benefits for
all employees — amend Section 171.65 (O 1444-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employment Nondiscrimination laws based on gender identity or expressions; Goals of
Contractors — amend Sections 187.15 and 187.16 (O 1445-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Promoting Downtown Cleveland Program — agreement — Downtown Cleveland Residents
Association (Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corp.) — Community Development
Department (Ward 03 CRF) (O 1440-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recusal — Ordinances involving ParkWorks and L.A.N.D. Studio — Council Member
Cimperman — Public Works Department (F 1442-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1718

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

October 23, 2013

The City Record

29

Ward 05
Arbor Park Phase II Refinancing — amend contract # 57340 (O 1430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Broadway Slavic Village P-16 Initiative — “Lights on After School” — Recognition (R 1458-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Ward 06
Broadway Slavic Village P-16 Initiative — “Lights on After School” — Recognition (R 1458-13).
Cheatham, Marie — 100th Birthday — Congratulations (R 1455-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Food Gift Program — food to low income and senior citizens — Community
Development Department — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 1416-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patterson, Emma James — Condolence (R 1452-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Ward 07
Empowering and Strengthening Ohio’s People (ESOP) — Congratulations (R 1457-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Ward 08
Daniels, Norris Ernestine — 100th Birthday — Congratulations (R 1454-13) . . . . . . . . .
E. 41 St. (southwest side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1436-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilliard, Mary Florence (Holt) — 100th Birthday — Congratulations (R 1453-13) . . . .
Smith, Delores W. “Dee” — Condolence (R 1451-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Ward 09
National Dyslexia Awareness Month — Recognition (R 1459-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Ward 10
Increase penalties for procuring, soliciting and prostitution — Amend Section(s) 619.08
, 619.09 and 619.10 (O 1353-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Ward 11
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Ward 12
Broadway Slavic Village P-16 Initiative — “Lights on After School” — Recognition (R 1458-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Ward 13
State Rd., 4301(Patio) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1208-13 —
liquor permit (R 1443-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Ward 14
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701

Ward 15
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

Ward 16
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
West 89th St. — vacate a portion — repeal Ord. No. 891-05 — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (O 1427-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713

Ward 17
West 117th St., 3349 (1st fl. & rear) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1166-13 — liquor permit (R 1438-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

1719

The City Record

30

October 23, 2013

Ward 18
Support H.B. 274, “Goddard’s Law” (R 1448-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
West 138th Street San Diego Community Garden Project — agreement — Bellaire Puritas
Development Corp. — Community Development (Ward 18 NEF) (O 1439-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

Ward 19
Lorain Ave., 17109 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1441-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Water Division
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — enact Section 129.241 (O 1433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Zoning
Clark Ave. (between Train Ave. and W. 41st St.) — change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1435-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
E. 41 St. (southwest side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1436-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703

1720

