The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Eighth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

30

Board of Control

30

Civil Service

36

Board of Zoning Appeals

36

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
37
Public Notice

37

Public Hearings

37

City of Cleveland Bids

38

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

38

Committee Meetings

56

Index

56

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
44108
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5187

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY MAY 6, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Miller.

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 6, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with Majority Leader
of Council, Phyllis E. Cleveland, in
the Chair.
Council Members present:
Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, Jay Westbrook and Matthew
Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Bender, Smith,
Wasik, Butler, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich, and Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Rev. Pamela Pinkney, Pastor of No
Fear But God Fellowship Assembly,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Pledge of Allegiance.

753

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 697-13.
From Michael Cox, Director of
Department of Public Works, City of
Cleveland — Notification of acceptance of a grant from the Vivian
Ruth Barnes-Major Family Foundation Fund of the Cleveland Foundation. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 698-13.
RE: #4590264 D3A — New License
Application — Ken Stewart Flats
LLC, 1121 West 10th Street. (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 699-13.
RE: #1170580 C1 C2 — Transfer
License Application — CLE Shops
LLC, 950 Main Avenue. (Ward 3).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 712-13—Gilbert Ronald
Walker.
Res. No. 713-13—Beatrice (Bea)
Johnson.
Res. No. 714-13—Hurai McGhee
Banks.
Res. No. 715-13—Annie B. Johnson.
Res. No. 723-13—Ellis Johnson, Sr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 716-13—Fred Szabo.
Res. No. 717-13—Sandra Lee Flowers.
Res. No. 718-13—The O’Jays —
50th Anniversary.
Res. No. 719-13—Alma Smith.
Res. No. 720-13—Corporate College
(a Division of Cuyahoga Community College).
Res. No. 721-13—Mental Health
Services — 25th Anniversary.
Res. No. 722-13—Third Federal
Savings and Loan — 75th Anniversary.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 646-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase,
lease or lease to purchase by
requirements contract of various
types of vehicles and apparatus for
various Divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirements contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of various types of vehicles and
apparatus described in the Vehicle
List placed in File No. 646-13-A, or
such other vehicle or apparatus in
substitution
thereof
as
may
be
approved by the Directors of Public
Works and Finance as replacement
vehicles or apparatus, in the estimated sum of $6,500,000, to be purchased, leased or leased to purchase
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
various Divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for a requirements contract for the
entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
or contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of any purchase or
procurement under the contract, each
of which purchases or procurement
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a delivery order against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the City may enter
into a lease-purchase arrangement
for the vehicles and apparatus with a
bank, leasing company or any other
organization that is not the manufacturer or vendor of the vehicles or
apparatus that submitted a bid for the
sale, lease or lease to purchase
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, provided that: (I) the Director
of Finance determines that it is in the
best interest of the City to enter into
that lease-purchase arrangement,
(II) the maximum term of any leasepurchase arrangement does not
exceed ten (10) years, (III) the aggregate principal obligation of the City
under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed $6,900,000, (IV)
if the lease-purchase arrangement
provides that the lease payments are
to have a principal component and an

interest component, the maximum
interest rate for the interest component does not exceed seven percent
(7%) per annum, (V) the obligations
of the City under that lease-purchase
arrangement for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2013 are subject to annual appropriations being
made by the City sufficient to pay the
lease payments and to meet the other
obligations of the City under that
lease-purchase arrangement in each
of these fiscal years, and (VI) the
obligations of the City thereunder for
the current fiscal year do not exceed
$800,000, which amount is hereby
appropriated for that purpose. The
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to sign and deliver, for and
on behalf of the City and in the Director’s official capacity, such written
agreements, certificates and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate in order to provide for that
lease-purchase arrangement under
the terms and conditions authorized
herein and containing such additional terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Finance and
the Director of Law. Those agreements may include a lease-purchase
agreement, an escrow agreement for
the deposit by the lessor of the purchase price of the vehicles and apparatus, acceptance certificates evidencing the City’s acceptance of the
vehicles from the vendors, and certificates as to insurance, tax compliance
and related matters necessary to
carry out the transaction. The leasepurchase arrangement may provide
that the lease payments are to have a
principal component and an interest
component and that the interest component is to be excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes. In that event, the Director of
Finance and other City officials, as
appropriate,
are
authorized
to
covenant on behalf of the City that
(A) the City will use and will restrict
the use of the vehicles and apparatus
leased by the City under the lease-purchase agreement and will use, and
will restrict the investment of, any
proceeds of the lease-purchase agreement in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
the lease-purchase agreement will
not constitute a private activity bond,
an arbitrage bond or a hedge bond
under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”), or be
treated other than as an obligation to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (B) the City will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest
component of the lease payments to
be and to remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes and the City will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion. In the event that the City enters
into such a lease-purchase arrangement, the Director of Public Works
may assign to the lessor under the
lease-purchase arrangement, or the
lessor’s designee, the rights of the
City under the contracts for purchase
of the vehicles and apparatus authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
The Director of Law, Clerk of Council
and other appropriate officials of the
City are authorized to sign and deliver any documents, certificates and
other instruments as the Director of
Law determines are necessary and
appropriate to carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.

754

May 8, 2013
Section 4. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance where adopted in open
meetings of this Council, and any of
its committees that resulted in such
formal action were in meetings open
to the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 647-13.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
accept a cash gift from the Cory
Methodist Church to be used solely
for the replacement of the boiler at
the Cory Methodist Church.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 97475, passed May 19, 1975, as amended, this Council authorized the
Director of Public Works to enter
into a lease agreement, as amended,
with
Cory
Methodist
Church
(“Church”)
for
the
use
of
the
church’s recreation center as a
recreation site for City residents;
and
Whereas, the boiler at the Church
needs to be replaced and it also
serves the recreation center area of
the Church; and
Whereas, the Church has agreed
to assist with the cost of replacing
the boiler by remitting to the City
insurance proceeds the Church has
received under its policy to partially finance its replacement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. The Director of Public
Works is authorized to accept, on
behalf of the Division of Recreation,
cash in the amount of $23,888 from
the Church to be used solely for the
replacement of the boiler at the
Church.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
this gift, and that the funds are appropriated for the replacement of the
boiler at the Church, and deposited
into Fund No. 20 SF 814.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the mem-

May 8, 2013
bers elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 648-13.
By
Council
Members
Brady,
Sweeney, Keane, Miller, Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for reconstructing Lorain
Avenue from West 150th Street to
West 117th Street; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts, contracts with consultants,
and agreements with public and private entities; authorizing a Local
Project Administration agreement
with the Ohio Department of Transportation; apply for and accept any
federal funds; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire, accept, and record
for right-of-way purposes any real
property and easements necessary to
make the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount up to $6,545,956,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director
to
finance
the
public
improvement
of
reconstructing
Lorain Avenue from West 150th
Street to West 117th Street (the
“Improvement”); that the Mayor is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any funds from the United
States of America to partially finance
the Improvement; that the Mayor is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes of
this ordinance.
Section 3. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the City of Cleveland is obligated to
provide cash matching funds in the
amount of the local share.
Section 4. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional
design, engineering and construction
services necessary for the Improvement.

The City Record
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement as described in
this ordinance, for the Office of Capital Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 6. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components
may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA
for infrastructure restoration costs
associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the Improvement and
costs associated with implementing
green infrastructure features to
address combined sewer overflows.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 9. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more Local Project Administration agreements with the Ohio
Department of Transportation to fund

755

5
and construct the Improvement . The
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the agreements and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 13. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 52 SF 001, the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance,
any federal funds, the fund or funds
to which are credited the proceeds of
the sale of the bonds authorized by
Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22,
2013, cash matches, and cash contributions accepted and appropriated
under this ordinance, and any other
funds appropriated for this purpose
with the approval of the Director of
Finance.
Section 14. That this ordinane is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 649-13.
By Council Members Mitchell, Conwell, Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for reconstructing Martin
Luther King Jr. Blvd. from Buckingham to Cedar Avenue; determining the method of making the public improvement; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts, contracts with consultants, and agreements with public
and private entities; and authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire, accept, and
record for right-of-way purposes any
real property and easements necessary to make the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount up to $2,599,440,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director
to
finance
the
public
improvement of reconstructing Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. from Buckingham
to
Cedar
Avenue
(the
“Improvement”); that the Mayor is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 2. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,

6
the City of Cleveland is obligated to
provide cash matching funds in the
amount of the local share.
Section 3. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional
design, engineering and construction
services necessary for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement as described in
this ordinance, for the Office of Capital Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 5. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components
may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA
for infrastructure restoration costs
associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the Improvement and
costs associated with implementing
green infrastructure features to
address combined sewer overflows.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 8. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to

The City Record
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 11. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 52 SF 001, the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance,
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of the
bonds authorized by Ordinance No.
580-13, passed April 22, 2013, cash
matches, cash contributions accepted
and appropriated under this ordinance, any other funds appropriated
for this purpose with the approval of
the Director of Finance.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 650-13.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Xerox State & Local Solutions, Inc.
for traffic photo enforcement and to
install and maintain automated traffic cameras, for a period not to
exceed four years, with three oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Safety; and
to amend Section 413.031, as amended by Ordinance No. 840-12, passed
July 11, 2012, relating to the use of
automated cameras to impose civil
penalties upon red light and speeding violators.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into contract with Xerox State &
Local Solutions, Inc. for professional services necessary for traffic
photo enforcement and to install and
maintain automated traffic cameras
on the basis of its proposal dated
November 9, 2012, for a period not to
exceed four years, with three oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Safety.
The contract or contracts shall be
paid from the fund or funds to

756

May 8, 2013
which are credited the proceeds generated from the operation of the
automated traffic cameras.
Section 2. That Section 413.031 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 840-12, passed July 11, 2012, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 413.031 Use of Automated
Cameras to Impose Civil Penalties
upon Red Light and Speeding Violators
(a) Civil Enforcement System
Established. The City of Cleveland
hereby adopts a civil enforcement
system for red light and speeding
offenders photographed by means of
an “automated traffic enforcement
camera system” as defined in division
(p). This civil enforcement system
imposes monetary liability on the
“owner” of a vehicle as defined in division (p) for failure of an operator to
stop at a traffic signal displaying a
steady red light indication or for the
failure of an operator to comply with
a speed limitation.
(b) Red Light Offense – Liability
Imposed. The owner of a vehicle shall
be liable for the penalty imposed
under this section if the vehicle crosses a marked stop line or the intersection plane at a system location when
the traffic signal for that vehicle’s
direction is emitting a steady red
light.
(c) Speeding Offense – Liability
Imposed. The owner of a vehicle shall
be liable for the penalty imposed
under this section if the vehicle is
operated at a speed in excess of the
limitations set forth in Section 433.03.
(d) Liability Does Not Constitute a
Conviction. The imposition of liability under this section shall not be
deemed a conviction for any purpose
and shall not be made part of the operating record of any person on whom
the liability is imposed.
(e) Other Offenses and Penalties
Not Abrogated. Nothing in this section shall be construed as altering or
limiting Sections 433.03 or 413.03 of
these Codified Ordinances, the criminal penalties imposed by those sections, or the ability of a police officer
to enforce those sections against any
offender observed by the officer violating either of those sections. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to limit the liability of an operator of
a vehicle for any violation of division
(b) or (c) of this section.
(f) Selection of Camera Sites. The
selection of the sites where automated cameras are placed and the
enforcement of this ordinance shall
be made on the basis of sound professional traffic engineering and law
enforcement judgments. Automated
cameras shall not be placed at any
site where the speed restrictions or
the timing of the traffic signal fail to
conform to sound professional traffic
engineering principles.
(g) Locations. The following are
the locations for the Automated Traffic Enforcement Camera System:
Locations
Shaker Boulevard at Shaker Square
Chester Avenue at Euclid Avenue
West Boulevard at North Marginal
Road
Shaker Boulevard at East 116th
Street
West Boulevard at I-90 Ramp
Chester Avenue at East 71st Street
East 55th Street at Carnegie
Avenue

May 8, 2013
Woodland Avenue in the 4500 to
4700 block
Euclid Avenue between Cliffview
Road and Torbenson Road
East 131st Street at Harvard
Avenue
Carnegie Avenue at East 30th
Street
Cedar Avenue at Murray Hill Road
Grayton Road at I-480 Ramp
Euclid Avenue at Mayfield Road
Warren Road at I-90 Ramp
Prospect Avenue at East 40th Street
East 116th Street at Union Avenue
Pearl Road at Biddulph Road
Carnegie Avenue at East 100th
Street
Carnegie Avenue at Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive
Memphis Avenue at Fulton Road
Lakeshore Boulevard at East 159th
Street
St. Clair Avenue at London Road
Clifton Boulevard between West
110th Street and West 104th Street
Chester Avenue between East 55th
Street and East 40th Street
Woodland Avenue between East
66th Street and East 71st Street
West Boulevard between I-90 Ramp
and Madison Avenue
Lee Road between Tarkington
Avenue and I-480 Ramp
I-90 and West 41st Street
I-90 and West 44th Street
Woodland Avenue at East 55th
Street
Harvard Avenue at Lee Road
Orange Avenue at East 30th Street
Chester Avenue at East 105th Street
St. Clair Avenue at East 152nd
Street
Kinsman Road at East 93rd Street
Lee Road at Miles Road
Stokes Boulevard at Cedar Avenue
West 25th Street at Clark Avenue
I-490 at East 55th Street
Pearl Road at Denison Avenue
Broadview Road at Brookpark
Road
Pearl Road at Broadview Road
St. Clair Avenue at East 105th
Street
Woodland Avenue at East 30th
Street
Lorain Avenue at West 65th Street
Broadview Road at Spring Road
St. Clair Avenue at East 55th Street
Puritas Avenue at West 150th
Street
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive at
East 105th Street
Lakeview
Road
and
Superior
Avenue
East 105th Street and Superior
Avenue
East 124th Street and Superior
Avenue
East 156th Street and Waterloo
Road
Neff Road and East 185th Street
The Director of Public Safety shall
cause the general public to be notified
by means of a press release issued at
least thirty (30) days before any
given camera is made fully-operational and is used to issue tickets to
offenders. Before a given camera
issues actual tickets, there shall be a
period of at least two (2) weeks,
which may run concurrently with the
thirty (30) day public-notice period,
during which only “warning” notices
shall be issued.
At each site of a red light or fixed
speed camera, the Director of Public
Works shall cause signs to be posted
to
apprise
ordinarily
observant
motorists that they are approaching

The City Record
an area where an automated camera
is monitoring for red light or speed
violators. Mobile speed units shall be
plainly marked vehicles.
(h) Notices of Liability. Any ticket
for an automated red light or speeding system violation under this section shall:
(1) Be reviewed by a Cleveland
police officer;
(2) Be forwarded by first-class mail
or personal service to the vehicle’s
registered owner’s address as given
on the state’s motor vehicle registration, and
(3) Clearly state the manner in
which the violation may be appealed.
(i) Penalties. Any violation of division (b) or division (c) of this section
shall be deemed a noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty shall be
assessed and for which no points
authorized by RC 4507.021 (“Point system for license suspension”) shall be
assigned to the owner or driver of the
vehicle.
(j) Ticket Evaluation, Public Service, and Appeals. The program shall
include a fair and sound ticket-evaluation process that includes review by
the vendor and a police officer, a
strong customer-service commitment,
and an appeals process that accords
due process to the ticket respondent
and that conforms to the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code.
(k) Appeals. A notice of appeal
shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within twenty-one (21) days from
the date listed on the ticket. The failure to give notice of appeal or pay the
civil penalty within this time period
shall constitute a waiver of the right
to contest the ticket and shall be considered an admission.
Appeals shall be heard by the Parking Violations Bureau through an
administrative process established by
the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court. At hearings, the strict rules of
evidence applicable to courts of law
shall not apply. The contents of the
ticket shall constitute a prima facie
evidence of the facts it contains. Liability may be found by the hearing
examiner based upon a preponderance of the evidence. If a finding of
liability is appealed, the record of the
case shall include the order of the
Parking Violations Bureau, the ticket, other evidence submitted by the
respondent or the City of Cleveland,
and a transcript or record of the hearing, in a written or electronic form
acceptable to the court to which the
case is appealed.
Liability shall not be found where
the evidence shows that the automated camera captured an event that is
not an offense, including each of the
following events and such others as
may be established by rules and regulations issued by the Director of Public Safety under the authority of division (n) of this section:
(1) The motorist stops in time to
avoid violating a red light indication;
(2) The motorist proceeds through
a red light indication as part of funeral procession;
(3) The motorist is operating a
City-owned emergency vehicle with
its emergency lights activated and
proceeds through a red light indication or exceeds the posted speed limitation;
(4) The motorist is directed by a
police officer on the scene contrary to
the traffic signal indication.

757

7
Liability shall also be excused if a
vehicle is observed committing an
offense where the vehicle was stolen
prior to the offense and the owner has
filed a police report.
The Director of Public Safety, in
coordination with the Parking Violations Bureau, shall establish a
process by which a vehicle owner who
was not the driver at the time of the
alleged offense may, by affidavit,
name the person who the owner
believes was driving the vehicle at
the time. Upon receipt of such an affidavit timely submitted to the Parking
Violations Bureau, the Bureau shall
suspend further action against the
owner of the vehicle and instead
direct notices and collection efforts to
the person identified in the affidavit.
If the person named in the affidavit,
when notified, denies being the driver
or denies liability, then the Parking
Violations Bureau shall resume the
notice and collection process against
the vehicle owner, the same as if no
affidavit had been submitted, and if
the violation is found to have been
committed by a preponderance of evidence, the owner shall be liable for
any penalties imposed for the offense.
A decision in favor of the City of
Cleveland may be enforced by means
of a civil action or any other means
provided by the Ohio Revised Code.
(l) Evidence of Operation. It is
prima facie evidence that the person
registered as the owner of the vehicle
with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or with any other state vehicle
registration office, or in the case of a
leased or rented vehicle, the “lessee”
as defined in division (p), was operating the vehicle at the time of the
offenses set out in divisions (b) and
(c) of this section.
(m) Program Oversight. The Director of Public Safety shall oversee the
program authorized by this section.
The Director of Public Works shall
oversee the installation and maintenance of all automated cameras. An
encroachment permit shall be authorized in the legislation in which locations are selected.
(n) Rules and Regulations. The
Director of Public Safety may issue
rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of these sections, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after publication in the City Record.
(o) Establishment of Penalty. The
penalty imposed for a violation of
division (b) or (c) of this section shall
be follows:
413.031(b)  
All violations
413.031(c)  
Up to 24 mph over the
speed limit:
25 mph or more over
the speed limit:
Any violation of a school
or construction zone
speed limit:

$100.00

$100.00
$200.00

$200.00

Late penalties: for both offenses, if
the penalty is not paid within twenty
(20) days from the date of mailing of
the ticket to the offender, an additional twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be
imposed, and if not paid within forty
(40) days from that date, another
forty
dollars
($40.00)
shall
be
imposed, for a total additional penalty in such a case of sixty dollars
($60.00).

8
(p) Definitions. As used in this section:
(1) “Automated traffic enforcement
camera system” means an electronic
system consisting of a photographic,
video, or electronic camera and a
vehicle sensor installed to work alone
or in conjunction with an official traffic controller and to automatically
produce photographs, video, or digital
images of each vehicle violating divisions (b) or (c).
(2) “Lessee” includes renter and
means:
A. the person identified as a vehicle
lessee or renter by a motor vehicle
leasing dealer or motor vehicle renting dealer pursuant to RC 4511.092
and further identified by the dealer as
the person having care, custody or
control of the vehicle at the time of a
violation of divisions (b) or (c); or
B. the person identified as the
lessee or as an additional owner of a
vehicle in the records of the Ohio
Bureau of Motor Vehicles or the
records of any other state motor vehicle bureau.
(3) “System location” means the
approach to an intersection or a street
toward which a photographic, video
or electronic camera is directed and is
in operation. It is the location where
the automated camera system is
installed to monitor offenses under
this section.
(4) “Vehicle owner” or “owner”
means the person or entity identified
by the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles,
or registered with any other State
vehicle registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle, or in the
case of a leased or rented vehicle, the
“lessee”.
Section 3. That existing Section
413.031 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 840-12, passed July 11,
2012, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 651-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1383-09,
passed October 5, 2009, as amended
by Ordinance No. 716-10, passed June
7, 2010 relating to authorizing the
Director of Economic Development
to apply for and accept a HUD 108
loan from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and to enter into contract
with Flats East Development LLC to
partially finance the development
located at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River on Lake Erie.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1383-09, passed October 5,
2009, as amended by Ordinance No.

The City Record
716-10, passed June 7, 2010, is amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File Nos. 1383-09-B and 1383-09-C, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That existing Section 4 of
Ordinance No. 1383-09, passed October
5, 2009, as amended by Ordinance No.
716-10, passed June 7, 2010, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 652-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1740-08,
passed December 1, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1382-09, passed
October 5, 2009 relating to a contract
with Flats East Development, LLC
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
project costs for removing newly
discovered contaminants and other
associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1740-08, passed December
1, 2008, and amended by Ordinance
No. 1382-09, passed October 5, 2009,
passed October 5, 2009, is amended
to read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File Nos. 1740-08-C and 1740-08-D,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
and are approved in all respects and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1740-08, passed December 1, 2008, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1382-09, passed October 5, 2009, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

758

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 653-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1892-05,
passed February 13, 2006, amended
by Ordinance No. 1381-09, passed
October 5, 2009 and Ordinance No.
1757-09, passed December 7, 2009,
relating to a contract with Flats
East Development, LLC, and/or the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority to provide development
assistance to partially finance the
acquisition of land for retail, multifamily rental housing and/or parking facilities at the Project Site and
the construction at the Project Site
of parking facilities to support
retail
and/or
multifamily
rental
housing uses at the Project Site.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1892-05, passed February
13, 2006, amended by Ordinance No.
1381-09, passed October 5, 2009, and
Ordinance No. 1757-09, passed December 7, 2009, is further amended to
read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
or loans shall be according to the
terms set forth in the Summary contained in File Nos. 1892-05-D and 189205-E, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
and are approved in all respects and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1892-05, passed February 13, 2006, amended by Ordinance
No. 1381-09, passed October 5, 2009, and
Ordinance No. 1757-09, passed December 7, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 654-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality;
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more contracts for various services, equipment and supplies, and contracts with various
agencies or entities necessary to
operate the Division of Air Quality;
determining the method of constructing, rehabilitating, renovating,
replacing, or otherwise improving
air monitoring sites and other similar structures on city-owned and
city-leased property; and authorizing
the director to enter into one or
more contracts to construct the
improvement to design it.

May 8, 2013
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $2,880,362, and any other
funds that become available during
the grant term, from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality
in accordance with the purposes set
forth in the summary; that the
Director of Public Health is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 654-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the sum of $393,000 from Fund No.
01-5007-6397 in order to receive the
grant from the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, as a pass-through
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
grant period of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, services, and
supplies needed as described in the
file, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Air Quality, Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the grant term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items during the
term of the grant: various types of
monitoring
equipment,
OEPArequired equipment and their associated parts, and other materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases

The City Record
and Supplies on a unit basis, for the
Division of Air Quality, Department
of Public Health.
Section 6. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing,
or otherwise improving air monitoring sites and other similar structures
on City-owned and City-leased property (the “Improvement”), for the Division of Air Quality, Department of
Public Health, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with and make
payments to one or more various entities or agencies to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 11. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 12. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 13. That the payments and
cost of the contracts authorized IN
this ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the

759

9
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 655-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Case Western Reserve University
for the CWRU Partnership Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $42,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Case Western Reserve University to conduct the CWRU Partnership Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 655-13-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to extend the
term of the grant during the grant
term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 656-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Public Health Emer-

10
gency Preparedness Program; and to
enter into one or more contracts
with Executive Information Systems
LLC and Stata Corp. to acquire
license updates and any upgrades
for SAS, for a period not to exceed
the grant term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $182,538, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health to conduct the Public Health
Emergency Preparedness Program;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
administrative
summary
for
the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 656-13-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Executive
Information Systems LLC and Stata
Corp. for the acquisition of one or
more
license
updates
and
any
upgrades for SAS, including but not
limited to installation, design, training, testing, technical support, server
components, integration software and
software maintenance for a period of
one year.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

The City Record
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 657-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Title X Program; authorizing
the director to charge and accept
fees for this program; and to enter
into one or more agreements necessary for the City to receive payments from Medicare, Medicaid and
Medicaid HMO programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $500,000 and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from the Ohio Department of Health
to conduct the Title X Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 657-13-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects, including the obligation to
devote program income from first and
third party billings.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary for
the City to receive payments from
Medicare, Medicaid and Medicaid
HMOs to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Health may
sign all documents that are necessary

760

May 8, 2013
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the grant
proceeds, the first and third party
billings, and from the Medicaid reimbursements accepted under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 658-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more
contracts
with
Cleveland
Action to Support Housing, Inc.
(CASH) for administrative costs to
implement housing rehabilitation,
new housing construction and commercial
redevelopment
loan
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing,
Inc.
(CASH)
for
administrative costs to implement
housing rehabilitation, new housing
construction and commercial redevelopment loan programs in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$77,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 039, RQS 8006, RL 201368.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 659-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds and Federal
HOME funds for the operation of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs; and to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies to
implement these programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 39 and 2013
Federal HOME grant funds, from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to expend funds from CDBG
Fund No. 14 SF 039 in the amount
of $846,500, and Federal HOME Program Fund No. 19 SF 670 in the
amount of $401,960, and prior years
balances for the operation of Low
Interest Loan and Grant Home
Repair
Programs,
including
all
related services. Programs include:
Senior Home Owners Assistance Program
(SHAP),
Afford-A-Home
(AAH), Repair-A-Home (RAH), Corrective Action Grant, Housewarming, Furnace Repair, Home Maintenance Assistance Program (HMAP)
and Lead Hazard Abatement Program. Request No. RQS 8006, RL
2013-69.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
various non-profit agencies, rehabilitation service providers, tenants,
homeowners, and entities providing
services necessary to process loans
and grants to implement the Low
Interest Loan and Grant Programs in
the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment under the
programs and to utilize the repayments, and other program income in a
revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and
administrative
expenses,
which
repayments and program income are
appropriated for those purposes.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes, naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
Section 5. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
loan documents, closing, and servicing costs. Such fees shall be deposited
into Fund No. 14 and are hereby
appropriated for the purposes of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Program.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

The City Record
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 660-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
departmental
and
Kelley
(by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
for Commercial Revitalization and
rebate, grant, and/or loan agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants, and to enter
into agreements for eligible costs to
community
development
corporations for implementation of the
Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Programs.
Whereas, the City has created a
Storefront Renovation Program to
encourage exterior rehabilitation of
buildings in targeted areas in the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City is creating a
Commercial Revitalization Program
to further encourage rehabilitation,
increase the availability of goods
and services for low and moderate
income residents, and create employment in the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into rebate, grant,
and/or loan agreements with Storefront Renovation Program applicants, and contracts for eligible
administrative costs, consulting, or
professional services, and expenses
to community development corporations for implementation of the Commercial Revitalization and Storefront Renovation Programs. The
Director is also authorized to provide compensating balance deposits
to a designated lender(s) via Cleveland Action to Support Housing
(CASH) or other designee in return
for below market interest rate commercial loans to be used in the
Storefront Renovation Program.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into contracts with Commercial
Revitalization Program applicants.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
accept program income monies in
repayment from community development corporations under the Storefront Renovation Program and to utilize this program income, other Community Development Block Grant program income and Kiosk program
income in a revolving fund for additional Commercial Revitalization and
Storefront
Renovation
Program
expenditures, and such program
income is appropriated for that purpose.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes, naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
loans, costs, and fees under the City’s

761

11
Storefront Renovation Program and
Commercial Revitalization Program.
Section 5. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan, administered by the City for
Commercial Revitalization or Storefront Renovation.
Section 6. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
collect from persons or entities with
whom the City is entering into loan
agreements or forebearance agreements an amount equal to any amount
spent for services related to such
agreements, such as title searches,
credit bureau reports and document
filing fees. Such fees shall be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 7. That the total of the contracts and rebate agreements authorized may not exceed $200,000 and
will be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 039,
Request No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-070.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from the after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 661-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies or entities to
provide AIDS-related services, in
conjunction with the HOPWA Grant;
and authorizing the employment of
one or more professional consultants
to provide evaluation services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, as a Subrecipient
Grantee of CDBG funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies or entities, effective June 1,
2013, to provide AIDS-related services in conjunction with the Housing Opportunities for People With
AIDS (HOPWA) Grant Program,
under File No. 661-13-A. The sum of
not more than $27,500 is appropriated to the Department of Public
Health for administrative costs of
implementing the HOPWA program.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide evaluation services.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available

12
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That any agency or entity
that receives funds under this ordinance shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided
by the consultant.
Section 4. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Directors of Public Health and the Director
of Community Development must
enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program under the
terms authorized by this legislation.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts and administrative
costs referred to in Section 1, authorized in this ordinance are appropriated for costs of the Department of Public Health incurred from Fund 19 following the appropriate federal regulations and shall not exceed $918,000
and prior years balances and shall be
paid from Fund No. 19 SF 672, Request
No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-67.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 662-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contracts with various
agencies or entities to provide AIDSrelated services; authorizing the
employment of one or more professional consultants to provide evaluation services; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, as a Subrecipient
Grantee of CDBG funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies or entities to provide HIV/AIDS
prevention
education
activities,
under the Community Development
Block Grant, File No. 662-13-A, and
in addition, the sum of not more
than $87,600 is appropriated to the
Department of Public Health for
administrative costs of implementing the contracts authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of con-

The City Record
sultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide evaluation services.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant as described in the file.
Section 4. That any agency or entity
that receives funds under this ordinance shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided
by the consultant.
Section 5. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Directors of Public Health and Community
Development must enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program in accordance with the terms
authorized by this legislation.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts, and administrative
costs referred to in Section 1, authorized in this ordinance are appropriated for costs of the Department of Public Health incurred from Fund 19 following the appropriate federal regulations and shall not exceed $317,600
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF
039, Request No. RQS 8006, RL 2013-66.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 663-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract
No.
PS
2011-228
with
Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. to
provide surveying services, on an
as-needed basis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 777-07, passed June 4,
2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. PS 2011-228
with Michael Benza & Associates,
Inc. to provide surveying services,
on an as-needed basis; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 777-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

762

May 8, 2013
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 for an additional year with Michael Benza &
Associates, Inc. to provide surveying
services, on an as-needed basis. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 777-07 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 664-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-232 with KS
Associates, Inc. to provide surveying
services, on an as-needed basis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 777-07, passed June 4,
2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. PS 2011-232
with KS Associates, Inc. to provide
surveying services, on an as-needed
basis; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 777-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 for an additional year with KS Associates, Inc.
to provide surveying services, on an
as-needed basis. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
777-07 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 665-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Kelley (by departmental request.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Westside Industrial
Retention and Expansion Network
to provide economic development
assistance to finance the administration of the Cleveland Industrial
Retention Initiative.

May 8, 2013
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Westside Industrial
Retention and Expansion Network
(“WIRE-Net”) to provide economic
development assistance to finance
the administration of the Cleveland
Industrial
Retention
Initiative
(“CIRI”).
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed $400,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF 652,
Request No. RQS 9501, RL 2013-85
Section 3. That the Director of Law
is authorized to prepare the grant
agreement and other documents as
may be appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 666-13.
By Council Members Conwell,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute various deeds of easement
and deeds of temporary easement
granting to Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District certain easement
rights in property located at Forest
Hills Park and Martin Luther King
Jr. Park needed for the Dugway
West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project; and declaring the easement
rights not needed for public use.
Whereas, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer
District
(“NEORSD”)
has
requested the Director of Public
Works to convey certain easements
and temporary easement rights in
property located at Forest Hills
Park and Martin Luther King Jr.
Park; and
Whereas, NEORSD requires the
easement rights in conjunction with
the Dugway West Interceptor Relief
Sewer Project; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that easement interests in the
following described properties are
not needed for public use:
DWIRS-P1-1 Permanent Easement
Across Parcel No. 111-03-001
0.8917 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original

The City Record
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 356. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 660, Page 474, Volume 1265, Page
322, Volume 1265, Page 326, Volume
1266, Page 281, Volume, Volume 3920,
Page 107, Volume 3920, Page 108 and
Volume 6267, Page 88 of the Cuyahoga
County Records, being more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Glenview Avenue
(40.00 feet wide) and the centerline of
E. 110th Street (60.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of E.
110th Street, North 00° 33' 45" West,
82.54 feet;
Thence, continuing along the centerline of E. 110th Street, North 04° 22'
50" East, 255.74 feet;
Thence, leaving the centerline of E.
110th Street, South 85° 37' 10" East,
30.00 feet to the easterly right of way
of E. 110th Street;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of E. 110th Street, North 04° 22'
50" East, 24.93 feet to the True Point
of Beginning for the easement herein
described;
Thence, continuing along the easterly right of way of E. 110th Street the
following two courses;
North 04° 22' 50" East, 11.91 feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 28.63 feet,
said curve having a radius of 1845.83
feet, a central angle of 00° 53' 19", and
a chord of 28.63 feet which bears
North 04° 49' 30" East;
Thence, leaving the easterly right
of way of E. 110th Street, North 42° 14'
14" East, 165.94 feet;
Thence North 47° 31' 28" West, 18.89
feet;
Thence North 23° 49' 34" East, 13.63
feet;
Thence North 47° 50' 46" West, 67.23
feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 119.72 feet
to the easterly right of way of E. 110th
Street, said curve having a radius of
181.67 feet, a central angle of 37° 45'
23", and a chord of 117.56 feet which
bears North 00° 37' 36" East;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of E. 110th Street, along the arc
of a curve which deflects to the left,
164.63 feet, said curve having a radius
of 424.74 feet, a central angle of 22°
12' 30", and a chord of 163.60 feet
which bears North 00° 06' 05" West;
Thence, leaving the easterly right
of way of E. 110th Street, South 58° 10'
31" East, 33.66 feet;
Thence South 03° 10' 31" East,
249.17 feet;
Thence South 47° 31' 28" East, 31.69
feet;
Thence North 23° 49' 44" East, 24.67
feet;
Thence South 47° 31' 28" East, 34.15
feet;
Thence North 23° 26' 25" East,
441.64 feet;
Thence North 35° 00' 37" East, 34.61
feet;
Thence North 05° 48' 01" West, 67.06
feet;
Thence North 09° 08' 04" East, 96.55
feet to the southwesterly line of Permanent Easement DEIRS-EA2P as
recorded
in
Instrument
No.
201005040152 of the Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence, along the southwesterly
line of Permanent Easement DEIRSEA2P the following 2 courses;
South 31° 08' 17" East, 14.58 feet;
Thence South 41° 21' 33" East, 26.67
feet;

763

13
Thence, leaving the southwesterly
line of Permanent Easement DEIRSEA2P, South 09° 08' 04" West, 64.53
feet;
Thence South 05° 48' 01" East, 74.29
feet;
Thence South 35° 00' 37" West, 42.73
feet;
Thence South 23° 26' 25" West,
474.82 feet;
Thence South 42° 14' 14" West,
234.06 feet;
Thence South 61° 10' 16" West, 16.33
feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.8917 acres (38,843 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
DWIRS-P38-1 Permanent Easement
Across Parcel No. 110-01-004
0.0919 Acre
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 363. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 1266, Pages 274 and 279 of the
Cuyahoga County Records, being
more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the southerly right of way of St. Clair
Avenue (80 feet wide) and the easterly right of way of Lakeview Road (60
feet wide);
Thence, along the southerly right
of way of St. Clair Avenue, North 77°
55' 16" East, 175.14 feet to the True
Point of Beginning for the easement
herein described;
Thence, continuing along the
southerly right of way of St. Clair
Avenue, North 77° 55' 16" East, 100.32
feet;
Thence, leaving said southerly
right of way, South 12° 34' 06" East,
33.23 feet;
Thence North 87° 19' 14" West, 94.56
feet;
Thence South 02° 40' 46" West, 30.00
feet;
Thence South 87° 19' 14" East, 58.67
feet;
Thence South 02° 40' 46" West, 24.25
feet;
Thence South 82° 05' 58" West, 57.52
feet to the westerly line of said land
conveyed to City of Cleveland;
Thence, along City of Cleveland’s
westerly line, North 07° 54' 02" West,
72.55 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0919 acres (4,005 square feet) of land
as surveyed by KS Associates, Inc.
under the supervision of Trevor A.
Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August, 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
DWIRS-P54-1 Permanent Easement
Across Parcel No. 111-01-003
0.1014 Acre
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 355 & 356.
Also being part of the land conveyed
to the City of Cleveland as recorded in
Volume 660, Page 474 and Volume 668,
Page 580 of the Cuyahoga County
Records,
being
more
definitely
described as follows;

14
Commencing at the northwest corner of Sublot No. 101 in the CurtisAmbler Reality Co. Subdivision as
recorded in Volume 26, Page 23 of the
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence, along the northerly line of
said Sublot No. 101, North 89° 05' 35"
East, 13.60 feet to the True Point of
Beginning for the easement herein
described;
Thence, leaving the northerly line
of said Sublot No. 101, North 63° 36'
50" East, 234.15 feet to the northerly
line of land conveyed to Yulanda
Wiley as recorded in Instrument No.
200606190189 of the Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence, along Yulanda Wiley’s
northerly line, South 48° 27' 59" West,
114.81 feet;
Thence, leaving Yulanda Wiley’s
northerly line, South 63° 36' 50" West,
60.38 feet to the northerly line of said
Sublot No. 101;
Thence, along the northerly line of
said Sublot No. 101, South 89° 05' 35"
West, 69.74 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.1014 acres (4,418 square feet) of land
as surveyed by KS Associates, Inc.
under the supervision of Trevor A.
Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
the temporary easement interests in
the following described properties
are not needed for public use:
DWIRS-T1-1 Temporary Easement
Across Parcel No. 111-03-001
0.0366 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 356. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 3920, Page 107, Volume 3920,
Page 108 and Volume 6267, Page 88 of
the Cuyahoga County Records, being
more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Glenview Avenue
(40.00 feet wide) and the centerline of
E. 110th Street (60.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of E.
110th Street, North 00° 33' 45" West,
82.54 feet;
Thence, continuing along the centerline of E. 110th Street, North 04° 22'
50" East, 255.74 feet;
Thence, leaving the centerline of E.
110th Street, South 85° 37' 10" East,
30.00 feet to the easterly right of way
of E. 110th Street;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of E. 110th Street, North 04° 22'
50" East, 36.84 feet;
Thence, continuing along the easterly right of way of E. 110th Street,
along the arc of a curve which
deflects to the right, 28.63 feet to the
True Point of Beginning for the easement herein described, said curve
having a radius of 1845.83 feet, a central angle of 00° 53' 19", and a chord
of 28.63 feet which bears North 04° 49'
30" East;
Thence, continuing along the easterly right of way of E. 110th Street,
along the arc of a curve which
deflects to the right, 16.73 feet, said

The City Record
curve having a radius of 1845.83 feet,
a central angle of 00° 31' 10", and a
chord of 16.73 feet which bears North
05° 31' 44" East;
Thence, leaving the easterly right
of way of E. 110th Street, North 42° 14'
14" East, 152.57 feet;
Thence South 47° 31' 28" East, 10.00
feet;
Thence South 42° 14' 14" West,
165.94 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0366 acres (1,593 square feet) of land
as surveyed by KS Associates, Inc.
under the supervision of Trevor A.
Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
DWIRS-T1-2 Temporary Easement
Across Parcel No. 111-03-001
0.4085 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 356. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 3920, Page 108 and Volume 660,
Page 474 of the Cuyahoga County
Records,
being
more
definitely
described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Glenview Avenue
(40.00 feet wide) and the centerline of
E. 110th Street (60.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of E.
110th Street the following 5 courses;
North 00° 33' 45" West, 82.54 feet;
Thence North 04° 22' 50" East,
292.58 feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 294.67 feet,
said curve having a radius of 1875.83
feet, a central angle of 09° 00' 02", and
a chord of 294.37 feet which bears
North 08° 52' 51" East;
Thence North 13° 22' 52" East, 36.86
feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 169.39 feet,
said curve having a radius of 394.74
feet, a central angle of 24° 35' 12", and
a chord of 168.09 feet which bears
North 01° 05' 16" East;
Thence, leaving the centerline of E.
110th Street, North 78° 47' 40" East,
30.00 feet to the easterly right of way
of E. 110th Street and the True Point
of Beginning for the easement herein
described;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of E. 110th Street, along the arc
of a curve which deflects to the left,
40.37 feet, said curve having a radius
of 424.74 feet, a central angle of 05°
26' 44", and a chord of 40.35 feet which
bears North 13° 55' 42" West;
Thence, leaving the easterly right
of way of E. 110th Street, North 31° 49'
54" East, 31.40 feet;
Thence South 58° 10' 32" East,
150.31 feet;
Thence South 23° 48' 06" West,
211.83 feet;
Thence South 03° 13' 55" East, 54.87
feet;
Thence South 48° 03' 09" East, 24.13
feet;
Thence South 23° 49' 44" West, 10.71
feet;
Thence North 47° 31' 28" West, 31.69
feet;
Thence North 03° 10' 31" West,
249.17 feet;
Thence North 58° 10' 31" West, 33.66
feet to the point of beginning.

764

May 8, 2013
Containing within said bounds
0.4085 acres (17,793 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
DWIRS-T1-3 Temporary Easement
Across Parcel No. 111-03-001
0.2712 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 356. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 3920, Page 108, Volume 1265,
Page 322 and Volume 1265, Page 326
of the Cuyahoga County Records,
being more definitely described as
follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Glenview Avenue
(40.00 feet wide) and the centerline of
E. 110th Street (60.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of E.
110th Street the following 5 courses;
North 00° 33' 45" West, 82.54 feet;
Thence North 04° 22' 50" East,
292.58 feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 294.67 feet,
said curve having a radius of 1875.83
feet, a central angle of 09° 00' 02", and
a chord of 294.37 feet which bears
North 08° 52' 51" East;
Thence North 13° 22' 52" East, 36.86
feet;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 169.39 feet,
said curve having a radius of 394.74
feet, a central angle of 24° 35' 12", and
a chord of 168.09 feet which bears
North 01° 05' 16" East;
Thence, leaving the centerline of E.
110th Street, North 78° 47' 40" East,
30.00 feet to the easterly right of way
of E. 110th Street;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of E. 110th street, along the arc of
a curve which deflects to the left,
40.37 feet, said curve having a radius
of 424.74 feet, a central angle of 05°
26' 44", and a chord of 40.35 feet which
bears North 13° 55' 42" West;
Thence, leaving the easterly right
of way of E. 110th Street, North 31° 49'
54" East, 31.40 feet;
Thence South 58° 10' 32" East,
150.31 feet;
Thence South 23° 48' 06" West,
211.83 feet;
Thence South 03° 13' 55" East, 54.87
feet;
Thence South 48° 03' 09" East, 24.13
feet;
Thence North 23° 49' 44" East, 13.96
feet;
Thence South 47° 31' 28" East, 13.64
feet to the True Point of Beginning
for the easement herein described;
Thence North 23° 54' 47" East,
468.06 feet;
Thence North 05° 48' 01" West, 59.42
feet;
Thence North 09° 08' 04" East,
122.78 feet to the southwesterly line of
Permanent Easement DEIRS-EA2P
as
recorded
in
Instrument
No.
201005040152 of the Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence, along the southwesterly
line of Permanent Easement DEIRSEA2P, South 31° 08' 17" East, 30.94
feet;
Thence, leaving the southwesterly
line of Permanent Easement DEIRS-

May 8, 2013

The City Record

EA2P, South 09° 08' 04" West, 96.55
feet;
Thence South 05° 48' 01" East, 67.06
feet;
Thence South 35° 00' 37" West, 34.61
feet;
Thence South 23° 26' 25" West,
441.64 feet;
Thence North 47° 31' 28" West, 20.51
feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.2712 acres (11,815 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.

Thence, leaving the southwesterly
line of Permanent Easement DEIRSEA2P, South 23° 29' 50" West, 711.61
feet;
Thence North 82° 16' 49" West,
181.70 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
1.9259 acres (83,893 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.

DWIRS-T1-4 Temporary Easement
Across Parcel No. 111-03-001
1.9259 Acres

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 362. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 1597, Page 202 of the Cuyahoga
County Records, being more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the southeast corner of Sublot No. 68 in The Remington
Subdivision as recorded in Volume 35,
Page 29 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records, said point also being in the
northerly right of way of Elk Avenue
(40.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the northerly right of
way of Elk Avenue, North 89° 08' 00"
East, 41.79 feet, to the True Point of
Beginning for the easement herein
described;
Thence, leaving the northerly right
of way of Elk Avenue, North 00° 52'
00" West, 120.00 feet;
Thence North 89° 08' 00" East,
159.00 feet to the easterly line of said
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, said point is also the northwest
corner of land conveyed to Wells
Fargo Bank, NA as recorded in Instrument No. 200908250509 of the Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence, along the City of Cleveland’s easterly line, South 00° 33' 30"
East, 120.00 feet to the northerly right
of way of Elk Avenue;
Thence, along the northerly right of
way of Elk Avenue, South 89° 08' 00"
West, 158.35 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.4371 acres (19,041 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in August 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(CORS) Grid
North.
Section 3. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed non-exclusive easement
interests and the non-exclusive temporary easements to NEORSD subject
to any conditions stated in this ordinance at a price of $16,525 and other
valuable considerations, which is
determined to be fair market value.
Section 4. That the easement and
temporary easement shall be nonexclusive and the purpose of the easements shall be to construct, operate,
and maintain the Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that the
duration of the temporary easement
shall be 30 months or until the Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 356. Also
being part of the land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland as recorded in Volume 1265, Page 322, Volume 1265,
Page 326, Volume 1266, Page 281, Volume 3920, Page 107, Volume 3920,
Page 108 and Volume 6267, Page 88 of
the Cuyahoga County Records, being
more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Glenview Avenue
(40.00 feet wide) and the centerline of
E. 110th Street (60.00 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of E.
110th Street, North 00° 33' 45" West,
82.54 feet;
Thence, continuing along the centerline of E. 110th Street, North 04° 22'
50" East, 255.74 feet;
Thence, leaving the centerline of E.
110th Street, South 85° 37' 10" East,
30.00 feet to the True Point of Beginning for the easement herein and the
easterly right of way of E. 110th
Street;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of E. 110th Street, North
04°22'50" East, 24.93 feet;
Thence, leaving the easterly right
of way of E. 110th Street, North
61°10'16" East, 16.33 feet;
Thence North 42°14'14" East, 234.06
feet;
Thence North 23° 26' 25" East,
474.82 feet;
Thence North 35° 00' 37" East, 42.73
feet;
Thence North 05° 48' 01" West, 74.29
feet;
Thence North 09° 08' 04" East, 64.53
feet to the southwesterly line of Permanent Easement DEIRS-EA2P as
recorded
in
Instrument
No.
201005040152 of the Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence, along the southwesterly
line of Permanent Easement DEIRSEA2P the following 8 courses;
South 41° 21' 33" East, 37.50 feet;
Thence South 21° 03' 27" West, 72.91
feet;
Thence South 68° 56' 33" East, 30.00
feet;
Thence North 21° 03' 27" East, 45.96
feet;
Thence South 41° 21' 33" East, 63.08
feet;
Thence South 48° 39' 52" West,
151.69 feet;
Thence South 41° 20' 08" East, 49.00
feet;
Thence North 48° 39' 52" East, 94.38
feet;

DWIRS-T49-1 Temporary Easement
Across Parcel No. 108-13-081
0.4371 Acres

765

15
Project is completed; that the easements and temporary easements may
include reasonable right of entry
rights to the City; that the easements
and temporary easements shall not be
assignable without the consent of the
Director of Public Works; that the
easements and temporary easements
shall require that NEORSD provide
reasonable insurance, maintain any
NEORSD improvements located within the easements and the temporary
easements, and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement and official deeds of temporary easement prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The deeds of easement and the deeds
of temporary easement shall contain
any additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interest
of the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for
rights of entry, as may be necessary
to effect the construction of the Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer
Project
within
the
properties
described in this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 667-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Cuyahoga County and/or
municipalities
within
Cuyahoga
County to provide weatherization
assistance; authorizing the Director
of Community Development to enter
into contracts with individual landlords, tenants, contractors, non-profit
organizations,
and
Cuyahoga
County to provide weatherization
assistance to low-income residents
of Cuyahoga County needed to
implement the 2013 Home Weatherization Assistance Program.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1591-12, passed December 3, 2012,
this Council authorized the Director
of Community Development to apply
for and accept one or more grants
from the State of Ohio, Ohio Development Services Agency (ODSA) to
conduct the 2013 Home Weatherization Assistance Program (HWAP);
and
Whereas, in an effort to improve
Ohio’s energy strategy for low- to
moderate-income families, the ODSA
issued a new performance-based,
competitive Request for Proposal
on
a
encouraging
collaboration
County-wide basis; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Department of Community Development, Division of Neighborhood Services applied for 2013 HWAP funds
as the lead agency with memoran-

16
dum of agreements from four nonprofit organizations and Cuyahoga
County in order to ensure HWAP
services would be available throughout Cuyahoga County; and
Whereas,
under
Ohio
Revised
Code Section 307.15, the City of
Cleveland and Cuyahoga County are
authorized to enter into agreements
to render services on behalf of each
other and the City and County wish
to use this authority to provide
HWAP services County-wide; and
under
Ohio
Revised
Whereas,
Code Section 9.482, the City of Cleveland and other municipalities are
authorized to enter into agreements
to render services on behalf of each
other; and
Whereas, contracts with individual landlords, tenants, contractors,
non-profit organizations, and Cuyahoga County to provide weatherization assistance to low-income residents of Cuyahoga County are needed to implement the 2013 Home
Weatherization Assistance Program;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to expend the approximate
amount of $2,353,314, from the State
of Ohio, ODSA, to conduct the 2013
Weatherization
Assistance
Home
Program and that up to 5% of the
grant amount may be spent for
administrative costs of the program.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement, in accordance with ORC §307.15, to provide
HWAP services throughout Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into contracts with individual
landlords, tenants, contractors, nonprofit organizations, and Cuyahoga
County to provide weatherization
assistance to low-income residents of
Cuyahoga County through the 2013
Home Weatherization Assistance
Program.
Section 4. That, in the event that the
County does not enter into the agreement described in Section 2, in accordance with the authority of ORC
§9.482, the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with each municipality within Cuyahoga County that
wants to obtain HWAP services from
the City.
Section 5. That the agreements and
contracts shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such provisions to protect the interests of the City as the Director of Law
and the Director of Community Development shall require.
Section 6. That the costs of these
contracts and administrative costs
shall be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under Ordinance No. 1591-12,
passed December 3, 2012.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

The City Record
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 668-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with the Greater Cleveland
Media Development Corporation dba
Greater Cleveland Film Commission
to assist in the operations of the
organization.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with the Greater Cleveland
Media Development Corporation dba
Greater Cleveland Film Commission
to assist in the operations of the
organization.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed $200,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF 652,
Request No. RQS 9501, RL 2013-84.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
is authorized to prepare the grant
agreement and other documents that
may be appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 669-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events and to actively market the Cleveland Public Hall as a
premier site for the hosting of major
events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events and to actively market the Cleveland Public Hall as a

766

May 8, 2013
premier site for the hosting of major
events.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$200,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 652, RQS 9501, RL 2013-86.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 670-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
settlement
funds
collected
from the various cases prosecuted in
the Cleveland Municipal Court Housing Division for violations of the
Cleveland Building Code for purposes of demolishing condemned and
blighted structures.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
entered into Settlement Agreements
in various cases prosecuted in the
Cleveland Municipal Court Housing
Division for violations of the City’s
Building Code; and
Whereas, under the Settlement
Agreements,
Defendants
are
required to pay to the City a specified amount to be used for the demolition of condemned and blighted
properties; and
Whereas, the Director of Building
and Housing desires to use the
funds collected under the Settlement
Agreements for future demolitions
of condemned and blighted structures; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the settlement
funds collected from the various
cases prosecuted in the Cleveland
Municipal Court Housing Division
violations
of
the
Cleveland
for
Building Code are appropriated for
the purposes of demolishing condemned and blighted structures pursuant to Section 138.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Section 2. That the cost of the demolitions conducted under Section 138.07
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF 130
to which are credited the proceeds of
the settlements and from other funds
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

May 8, 2013
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 671-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
lease certain property located at
1350 West 3rd Street from Stark
1350, LLC, for the public purpose of
operating the Family Justice Center,
for a term of three years, with one
option to renew for an additional
three year period, exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety; and authorizing the Director to apply for and
accept grants and gifts from any
public or private entity for the operation of the Family Justice Center.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Department of Public Safety, the
Cleveland
Municipal
Court
and
Cuyahoga County Public Safety &
Justice Services desire to cooperate
in providing a Family Justice Center that will serve victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, child
abuse, and elder abuse; and
Whereas, the model for the Family Justice Center is designed to
address pitfalls commonly faced by
victims, including an often fragmented assistance system and services offered at the Family Justice
Center will bridge the gap by offering a more rational, collaborative,
victim-centered
service
delivery
approach with increased data and
information
sharing
capabilities;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
requires certain property located at
1350 West 3rd Street for the public
purpose of operating the Family
Justice Center; and
Whereas, Stark 1350, LLC has proposed to lease the space to the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County will
share in the cost of operating the
Family Justice Center; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to lease from
Stark 1350, LLC, certain property
more fully described as 1350 West
3rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed three years, with one option to
renew for an additional three year
period, exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety.
Section 3. That the City’s share of
the rent for the lease authorized by
this ordinance shall be an annual
rental of no more than $180,000 for the
initial term and no more than $196,880
for the option term, if exercised by the
director.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the City to make improvements to
the leased premises under terms to be
determined by the parties to be consistent with the public purpose or purposes of operating the Family Justice
Center.

The City Record
Section 5. That the lease may provide for the City’s payment of appropriate utility and other operating
costs of the leased premises.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into a
cooperative agreement or agreements
with Cuyahoga County for the purpose of operating the Family Justice
Center and to accept payment from
the County for its share of the costs of
the cooperative agreement, which
payment shall be appropriated for
that purpose if made in advance.
Section 7. That the Director is
authorized to enter into agreements
with other entities for purposes related to the operation of the Family Justice Center, and is authorized to
accept funds related to operation,
which funds shall be appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept grants and gifts from public and private entities for the operation of the Family Justice Center. The
Director is further authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds accepted under this ordinance and, upon
acceptance of the funds by the Director, they shall be appropriated for the
purposes of this ordinance.
Section 9. That the costs of the lease
shall be paid from Fund No. 01-60016360, Request No. RQS 6001, RE 20122748.
Section 10. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 11. That the Director of Public Safety, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 672-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to employ one or
more professional consultants to perform a job analysis and to develop,
administer and grade examinations
for the Divisions of Police and Fire,
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Secretary of
the Civil Service Commission is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of

767

17
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to perform a job analysis and to develop,
administer and grade examinations
for the Divisions of Police and Fire,
Department of Public Safety.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Secretary of
the Civil Service Commission for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Secretary of the
Civil Service Commission, and certified by the Director of Finance. The
City and the Consultant may enter
into separate contracts for the separate phases of the services necessary.
Section 2. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-0108-6320, Request
No. RQS 0108, RL 2013-87.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Secretary of Civil Service
Commission;
Directors
of
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 673-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide various services under
the Bed Bug Assistance Program,
for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide eligible City residents
with bed bug abatement assistance
to implement the Bed Bug Assistance Program, as described in File
No. 673-13-A, including but not limited to assessments, recommendations, education, extermination services, management of extermination
services, and other related services,
for a period of one year.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Aging from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Aging for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be

18
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Aging,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-0201-6320,
Request No. RQS 0201, RL 2013-81.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 674-13.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for reconstructing Puritas
Avenue from SR 237 to West 130th
Street; determining the method of
making the public improvement;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts, contracts with consultants, and agreements with public and private entities; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements necessary to make
the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount up to $3,264,170,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director
to
finance
the
public
improvement of reconstructing Puritas Avenue from SR 237 to West
130th Street (the “Improvement”);
that the Mayor is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 2. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the City of Cleveland is obligated to
provide cash matching funds in the
amount of the local share.
Section 3. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional
design, engineering and construction
services necessary for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of

The City Record
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement as described in
this ordinance, for the Office of Capital Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 5. That provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components
may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA
for infrastructure restoration costs
associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the Improvement and
costs associated with implementing
green infrastructure features to
address combined sewer overflows.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 8. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 11. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from

768

May 8, 2013
Fund No. 52 SF 001, the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance,
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of the
bonds authorized by Ordinance No.
580-13, passed April 22, 2013, cash
matches, cash contributions accepted
and appropriated under this ordinance, any other funds appropriated
for this purpose with the approval of
the Director of Finance.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 675-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to test, fuel,
maintain, refurbish, and repair offroad fossil fuel backup electrical,
backup pumping, and backup computer systems, including but not limited to, providing fuel material, services, emergency fuel deliveries,
tank rental, fuel testing, conditioning, and recycling; and the purchase
of generators and assorted uninterruptible electrical systems and current conditioning equipment systems, including labor and materials
to maintain, repair, or replace if necessary; and labor and material to
test underground storage tanks; for
the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
test, fuel, maintain, refurbish, and
repair off-road fossil fuel backup
electrical,
backup
pumping,
and
backup computer systems, including
but not limited to, providing fuel
material, services, emergency fuel
deliveries, tank rental, fuel testing,
conditioning, and recycling; and the
purchase of generators and assorted
uninterruptible
electrical
systems
and current conditioning equipment
systems, including labor and materials to maintain, repair, or replace
if necessary; and labor and material
to
test
underground
storage
tanks; in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various divi-

May 8, 2013
sions of the Department of Public
Utilities. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Public Utilities,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2013-11)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 676-13.
by Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 956-11, passed August 17, 2011, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1050-12,
passed August 8, 2012, relating to
the public improvement by requirement contract of repairing or replacing roofs or roof systems, for the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 956-11,
passed August 17, 2011, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1050-12, passed
August 8, 2012, are amended to read
as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing or replacing roofs or roof systems for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control; authorizing the Director
of Port Control to enter into one or
more public improvement require-

The City Record
ment contracts for the making of the
improvement for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing or
replacing roofs or roof systems for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control, by one or more public
improvement requirement contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 956-11,
passed August 17, 2011, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1050-12, passed
August 8, 2012, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 677-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley(by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
and located at 1885 West 25th Street
to 1889 West 25th Street, Ltd., or its
designee; and authorizing accepting
an 8.5 foot easement interest from
1889
West
25th
Street,
or
its
designee, for the public purpose of
pedestrian access.
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has requested the sale of
City-owned property located at 1885
West 25th Street to 1889 West 25th
Street Ltd., or its designee (the
“Redeveloper”), for redevelopment
purposes and such property is not
needed for the City’s public use; and
Whereas, 1889 West 25th Street
Ltd., or its designee, is required by
the Director of Capital Projects to
grant easement rights needed for
pedestrian access in the redevelopment area; and
Whereas, this sale is part of a
larger redevelopment effort for W.
25th Street and Gould Court which
plan has been memorialized in a
Memorandum
of
Understanding
which is substantially in the form
of the agreement placed in File No.
677-13-A and is the basis of City’s
agreement to sell this land; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the property located 1885
West 25th Street, Permanent Parcel
No. 003-23-035, is no longer needed
for
the
City’s
public
use
and
described as follows:

769

19
Permanent Parcel Number 003-23-035
1885 West 25th Street
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio:
And known as being the Northwesterly 21.50 feet of Sublot 213 in the Willeyville Allotment of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 69 and
70, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 21.50
feet front on the Northeasterly side of
West 25th Street (formerly Pearl
Street) and extending back of equal
width 156.75 feet as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Redeveloper
at a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances as may be
placed by the City of Cleveland in the
deed of conveyance and the grant of
pedestrian easement rights to City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the purchase payment will be deposited into Fund No.
14.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the public purpose of providing
pedestrian access in the redevelopment area the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire certain right-of-way easement interests at no cost to the City in
and to the premises substantially
being the Northerly 7 feet of PPN 00323-035 and the Southerly 1.5 feet of
Gould Court, upon vacation of Gould
Court by City of Cleveland, and being
together 8.5 feet frontage on the
Northeasterly side of West 25th Street
(formerly Pearl Street) and extending back of equal width approximately 156.75 feet to West 24th Place.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire certain rights in
and to the property.
Section 6. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Capital Projects on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including restrictive
reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall protect the
parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain
a provision against the erection of
any advertising signs or billboards
except permitted identification signs.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements necessary to
effectuate the real estate transactions authorized in this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

20
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 678-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City’s delivery of its written
consent to the amendment of a TIF
Declaration and a Disbursing Agreement, each originally entered into in
connection with the Flats Phase I
Project, in order to permit the
financing of additional improvements relating to the Flats Phase II
Project,
and
authorizing
related
matters.
Whereas, the City entered into a
Project
Development
Agreement
with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority and Flats East
Development LLC (the “Developer”)
on May 22, 2006 (the “Development
Agreement”) relating to the development
of
certain
permanent
improvements in the City of Cleveland known as the Flats East Bank
(the “Flats East Bank Development
Project”); and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1379-09 on October 5, 2009
declaring improvements to certain
real property (the “TIF Property”)
to be a public purpose and exempt
from real property taxation for 30
years beginning in tax year 2009,
and providing for annual service
payments in lieu of taxes (the
“PILOTs”) with respect to the TIF
Property (the “TIF Ordinance”); and
Whereas, in connection with the
Flats East Bank Development Project, this Council passed Ordinance
No. 1758-09, effective on December 7,
2009 (the “Authorizing Ordinance”),
providing for the execution and
delivery of a Cooperative Agreement
by and among the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority, the
Summit County Port Authority, the
City, the Developer, Fed/Main Street
LLC, the State of Ohio acting
through the Treasurer of State and
the Department of Development,
The Huntington National Bank and
U.S. Bank National Association (the
“TIF Cooperative Agreement”) as
well as such related instruments,
certificates and documents as were
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
such Authorizing Ordinance and the
TIF Cooperative Agreement in connection with the issuance of three
series of tax-exempt recovery zone
facility bonds (the “Original TIF
Bonds”), all in connection with the
financing of costs of Phase I of the
Flats East Bank Development Project; and
Whereas, in connection with the
issuance of the Original TIF Bonds,
Flats East Development LLC and
FED/Main Street LLC executed that
certain Mortgage and Declaration of
Covenants and Conditions Relative
to Service Payments in Lieu of
Taxes (the “TIF Declaration”); and
Whereas, Section 2.8 of the TIF
Cooperative
Agreement
provides
that the TIF Declaration and the
covenants
contained
therein
are
specifically enforceable by the City
by mandatory injunction or any
other remedy at law or in equity;
and

The City Record
Whereas, in connection with the
issuance of the Original TIF Bonds,
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority, the Summit County Port
Authority, the State of Ohio acting
through the Treasurer of State and
the Department of Development, the
Developer, Fed/Main Street LLC,
U.S. Bank National Association, as
SCPABF Trustee, The Huntington
National Bank, as POCBF Trustee,
The Huntington National Bank, as
OEBF Trustee and The Huntington
National Bank, as Disbursing Agent
entered into that certain Disbursing
and Payment Agreement dated as of
December 1, 2010 (the “Disbursing
Agreement”); and
Whereas, Section 7.4 of the Disbursing Agreement requires the consent of the City to any amendments
to Article IV of the Disbursing
Agreement; and
Whereas, the Developer has now
requested the consent of the City to
make certain amendments to each of
the TIF Declaration and the Disbursing Agreement, including Article IV, in order to permit the
issuance of additional bonds by the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority
(the
“Additional
TIF
Bonds”)
to
be
secured
by
the
PILOTs and paid from PILOTs
remaining after payment of debt
service on the Original TIF Bonds,
the proceeds of such Additional TIF
Bonds to be used by Developer to
finance
additional
improvements
relating to Phase II of the Flats
East Bank Development Project;
and
Whereas, the authorization for
such consents is urgently needed for
the benefit of the City in order to
provide for the improvement of the
Flats East Bank neighborhood, and
as a result, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
and safety; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines that (a) the financing of
Phase II of the Flats East Bank
Development Project will promote
economic recovery and job creation
within the City of Cleveland and (b)
it is necessary, proper and in the
best interest of the City to authorize
the City’s delivery of its written consent to the amendments to the TIF
and
the
Disbursing
Declaration
Agreement as requested by Developer to effectuate the issuance of
the Additional TIF Bonds (collectively, the “Consents”).
Section 2. Authorization of Consent
Documents; Additional Documents. In
order to provide for the financing of
Phase II, the City now determines it is
appropriate to execute and deliver its
written Consents, together with such
other documents and instruments as
necessary or desirable, to effectuate
such changes to the TIF Declaration
and the Disbursing Agreement as are
not adverse to the City, as may be
approved by the officer signing the
same on behalf of the City The determination by those officers that the
Consents and related documents and
instruments are not adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the signing of the Consents and

770

May 8, 2013
such related documents and instruments by such officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,
certificates and documents as shall be
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 3. Open Meeting Determination. It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council and of any of its committees
concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken,
and that all deliberations of this
Council and any of its committees
that resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements, including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 4. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby found and determined and is hereby represented and
recited, that all applicable provisions
of the City’s Charter and the rules of
this Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 5. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 6. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Section 7. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 689-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba PureSafety to provide technical and general training
and development content, activities,
and programs in support of employee performance and professional
development programs at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc.,
dba PureSafety to provide technical
and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of employee performance and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 for an additional year at a cost not to exceed
$24,500 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
PureSafety to provide technical and
general training and development
content, activities, and programs in
support of employee performance
and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes
the
additional
legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
1404-07 to exercise this option. (RQS
3001, RL 2013-89)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 690-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract
No.
PS
2011-96
with
OshKosh
Corporation
to
provide
technical and general training and
development content, activities, and
programs in support of employee
performance and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract

The City Record
No. PS 2011-96 with OshKosh Corporation to provide technical and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of employee performance and
professional development programs
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 for an additional year at a cost not to exceed
$10,373 with OshKosh Corporation to
provide technical and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of
employee performance and professional
development
programs
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to
exercise this option. (RQS 3001, RL
2013-90)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 691-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel Selection International, Inc. to provide technical and
general training and development
content, activities, and programs in
support of employee performance
and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel Selection International, Inc.
to provide technical and general
training and development content,
activities, and programs in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

771

21
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 for an additional year at a cost not to exceed
$7,000 with Evaluation Personnel
Selection International, Inc. to provide technical and general training
and development content, activities,
and programs in support of employee performance and professional
development programs at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to exercise this
option. (RQS 3001, RL 2013-88)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 692-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to assess security systems and network security systems,
processes, and policies, to recommend improvements, to design the
accepted
recommendations,
to
acquire any programs, and for training,
support,
and
maintenance;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of implementing any accepted recommended
improvements; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvements;
and authorizing one or more requirement contracts for hardware, software, computer supplies, and other
necessary supplies, equipment, and
services necessary to implement the
accepted improvements to the City’s
security systems and network security systems, processes, and policies,
for a period of three years with two
one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to assess security
systems and network security systems, processes, and policies, to recommend improvements, to design
the accepted recommendations, to
acquire any programs, and for train-

22
ing, support, and maintenance for a
period of three years with an option
to renew for two-one year periods,
exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of implementing
the
recommended
improvements,
including installation of recommended
equipment/material
for
the
Department of Public Utilities, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross price
for the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director, the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
of three years with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director, of the necessary items of
hardware, software not obtained
under Section 1 of this ordinance, computer supplies, and other necessary
supplies, equipment, and services to
implement the accepted improvements to the City’s security systems
and
network
security
systems,
processes, and policies, including but
not limited to cameras, gates, and
other security improvements, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Utilities.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Con-

The City Record
trol determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 52 SF 013, 54 SF 001, 54
SF 013, 58 SF 001, and 58 SF 013,
Request No. RQS 2002, RL 2013-98.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 695-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 817-12,
passed June 4, 2012, relating to exercising the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255 with Inland
Waters of Ohio to provide professional services to perform professional spent aircraft deicing fluid
management services at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 817-12, passed June 4, 2012,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No. PS
2010-255 for an additional one year
with Inland Waters of Ohio to provide
professional services to perform professional spent aircraft deicing fluid
management services at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 446-10 to exercise this
option. (RQS 3001, RL 2012-77 and
RQS 3001, RL 2013-100)
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 817-12, passed June 4,
2012, is repealed.

772

May 8, 2013
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 696-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The
Center for Families and Children to
provide technical and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of
employee performance and professional
development
programs
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2011-268 with The Center for
Families and Children to provide
technical and general training and
development content, activities, and
programs in support of employee
performance and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 for an additional year at a cost not to exceed
$31,000 with The Center for Families
and Children to provide technical
and general training and development content, activities, and programs in support of employee performance and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to exercise this
option. (RQS 3001, RL 2013-105)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 700-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to implement a vehicle
driver safety monitoring system,
including a safety management system database, safety equipment, support services, and training and
maintenance; and authorizing one or
more requirement or standard contracts for materials, equipment, supplies, and services, needed to implement the project, if not provided
under the professional services contract; for a period of one year with
three one-year options to renew, the
second of which would require additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to implement a vehicle driver safety monitoring system, including a
safety management system database, safety equipment, support services, and training and maintenance
for a period of one year with three
one-year options to renew. The first
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercised by the Director of
Port Control, without the necessity
of obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The second of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the second of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the third of
the one-year options to renew may
be exercisable at the option of the
Director of Port Control, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written standard purchase
and/or written requirement purchase
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the one-year period for
each or all of the following items:
safety equipment, including but not
limited to, vehicle camera equipment,
personal protective equipment, labor
and materials to install, and other
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement this
ordinance and not provided under a

The City Record
professional services contract authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis, for the Department of Port Control.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-104.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 701-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding the warehouses on Docks 30 and
32, to the Cleveland Browns Stadium
Company LLC for surface parking
and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns
home
games,
any
NFL
playoff
games and up to nine other events
a year, for a period of five years
with one option to renew for an
additional five year period, exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns Docks 28B, 30, and 32, which,
excluding the warehouses on Docks
30 and 32, are no longer needed for
the City’s public use: and
Whereas, the Cleveland Browns
Stadium Company LLC (“Browns”)
has proposed to lease Docks 28B, 30,
and 32, excluding the warehouses on
Docks 30 and 32, for surface parking and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns
home
games,
any
NFL
playoff
games and up to nine other events
a year; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port Control is authorized to lease to the
Browns, Docks 28B, 30, and 32,
excluding the warehouses on Docks
30 and 32 (“Leased Premises”) for
surface parking and staging special
event programming for ten Cleveland Browns home games, any NFL
playoff games and up to nine other
events a year.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
shall be for a period of five years with

773

23
one option to renew for an additional
five-year period, exercisable by the
Director of Port Control. Either party
shall have the right to terminate the
lease for development purposes upon
the later of one year or the end of the
next National Football League season.
Section 3. That the rent for the
Leased Premises shall be a daily
rental rate of $479.86 which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the Browns to make improvements to the Leased Premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 702-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
ARCONAS Corporation for the purchase of labor and materials needed
to install power outlets and USB
ports, for the convenience of the
traveling public in order to recharge
phones, computer, and other electronic devices, including maintenance, repair, and inspection, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year,
three
one-year
options
to
with
renew, the second of which would
require
additional
legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
ARCONAS
Corporation.
Therefore
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to make one or more
written contracts with ARCONAS
Corporation on the basis of its proposal dated May 3, 2013, in the total
sum of $150,000, for labor and materials needed to install power outlets
and USB ports, for the convenience
of the traveling public in order to
and
recharge
phones,
computer,
other electronic devices, including
maintenance, repair, and inspection,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year,
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options

24
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
If such additional legislative authority is granted and the second of the
one-year options to renew is exercised, then the third of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The contract or contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 106, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 114, 60 SF
115, 60SF 116, 60 SF 117, 60 SF 119,
60SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60 SF 126, 60 SF
128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160,
and from the fund or funds to which
are
credited
passenger
facility
charges if authorized for this purpose, and the fund or funds to which
are credited any grants received for
this purpose, Request No. RQS 3001,
RL 2013-101.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 703-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a written contract with
Shelley Company for the urgent
repairs performed in June 2012 to
pavement
surfaces
on
Runway
6L/24R necessary to maintain compliance with FAA regulatory mandates.
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control entered into a requirements
contract
with
Shelley
Company,
under the authority of Ordinance
No.1930-07, passed by the Council on
December 10, 2007 for the requirements of asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps and roadways, including labor and material, for repair
and installation; and
Whereas, after expiration of the
contract, necessary repairs to the
pavement
surfaces
on
Runway
6L/24R were needed in order to
maintain compliance with FAA regulatory mandates; and
Whereas, Shelley Company was
available to perform the urgent, specialized pavement management and
repair services, under the comprehensive pavement management program in order to meet the safety
requirements under FAA regulations
and maintain a safe operating environment for aircraft operating at
Cleveland Hopkins Airport; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a written contract with Shelley
Company for the urgent repairs performed in June 2012 to pavement
surfaces on Runway 6L/24R necessary to maintain compliance with
FAA regulatory mandates.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed $247,997.50 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
RQS 3001, RL 2013-79.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 704-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a development agreement
with
Parker
Hannifin,
or
its
designee, for the construction of a
new corporate aviation facility at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport; and authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a
new lease for a period up to thirty
years and enter into a month-tomonth extension of Parker Hannifin’s existing lease under Contract
No. 32713 for a period not to exceed
one year after it terminates on
December 2014.
Whereas, Parker Hannifin desires
to construct a new 45,000 square foot
corporate aviation facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
and
Whereas, under Lease Agreement
No. 32713, Parker Hannifin is currently leasing a 26,112 square foot
hangar located at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
until
December 2014; and
Whereas, Parker Hannifin will
relocate to the new facility when it
is completed and after the current
agreement terminates in December
2014; and
Whereas, in the event that the
new facility is not completed by
December 2014, a month-to-month
interim extension of the Parker
Hannifin lease under Lease Agreement No. 32713 will be necessary
until they can vacate the existing
facility and relocate to the new
facility; and
Whereas, upon relocation, the City
and Parker Hannifin desire a thirty-year lease of the new facility; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
development agreement with the
Parker Hannifin, for the construction of new Corporate Aviation
Facilities
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport.
Section 2. That the development
agreement, File No. 704-13-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and not mate-

774

May 8, 2013
rially changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Port is authorized to lease to Parker Hannifin the
property upon which is situated the
new corporate aviation facility which
is the subject of the development
agreement authorized in this ordinance, for a period not to exceed thirty years.
Section 4. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at fair market value established
under
an
independent
appraisal conducted by a MAI certified appraiser. The base rent determined by the appraiser will be subject
to the Consumer Price Index increases every five (5) years for the duration of the term commencing on the
fifth anniversary of the effective date
of the lease, exclusive of utilities.
Section 5. That the lease may authorize the Lessee to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 6. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 8. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to extend the
term of Contract No. 32713 with Parker Hannifin, on a month-to-month
basis for a period not to exceed one
year after their current agreement
terminates in December 2014.
Section 9. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more agreements necessary to
implement this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 705-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of repairing and
constructing roadways, bus pads,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs,
curb ramps, brick streets, and appurtenances and authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
one or more public improvement
requirement contracts for the making of the improvement, for a one
year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleve-

May 8, 2013
land, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
repairing and constructing roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway
aprons, curbs, curb ramps, brick
streets, and appurtenances, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects,
by one or more public improvement
requirement contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
on a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City
sells the bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13, passed April 22, 2013,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for a one year period for
the making of the above public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement for a period not to
exceed the specified term, purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of bonds
authorized by Ordinance No. 580-13,
passed April 22, 2013, if the City sells
such bonds, and shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 4004, RL 2013-24)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 679-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution approving the adoption of the Countywide
All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan
for Cuyahoga County, 2011 Update.
Whereas, hazard mitigation is any
sustainable action taken to reduce
or eliminate damage from future
disaster; and
Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation
Act of 2000 requires all communities
that desire to apply for federal mitigation programs to have an all-nat-

The City Record
ural hazard mitigation plan; and
Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation
Act of 2000 also requires communities to review and revise the plan at
least every five (5) years to reflect
changes in development, progress in
local mitigation efforts, and changes
in priorities, in order to continue eligibility to apply for federal mitigation programs; and
Whereas, the all-natural hazard
mitigation plan must meet the criteria established by the Federal
Emergency
Management
Agency
(“FEMA”); and
Whereas, for disasters that are
declared after November 1, 2004 that
the local government must have an
approved mitigation plan; and
Whereas, in collaboration with
participating jurisdictions, the Cuyahoga County Government, through
the Cuyahoga County Office of
Emergency Management developed
and maintains such a mitigation
plan which is entitled the “Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation
Plan for Cuyahoga County”; and
Whereas,
each
jurisdiction
requesting approval of the plan
must document that the plan has
been formally adopted; and
Whereas, adoption of the “Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan”
is a condition of eligibility to
receive federal mitigation funds
available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
1.
That
this
Council
Section
approves the adoption of the Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation
Plan for Cuyahoga County, 2011
Update.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to State Hazard Mitigation
Planner of Ohio Emergency Management Agency Dean W. Ervin, Sr.,
Emergency Management Agency,
2855 West Dublin – Granville Road,
Columbus, Ohio 43244-2055.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 680-13.
By Council Members Zone, Miller
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 3 and 7 of
Ordinance No. 663-10, passed May 17,
2010, and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 5a
and 5b relating to applying and
accepting funds from public or private entities for the rehabilitation of
the Lake Avenue and West 76th
Street pedestrian tunnels.

775

25
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 3 and 7 of Ordinance No. 66310, passed May 17, 2010, are amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of
the Lake Avenue and West 76th Street
pedestrian tunnels; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into any relative agreements; authorizing the Director to apply for accept
and cash gifts or grants received from
any public or private entity, including
a grant from LAND Studio; and causing payment of the City’s share to the
State for the cost of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 7. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 504, 20 SF 508, 20 SF
516, 52 SF 001, from the fund or funds
to which are credited any cash gifts
or grants received under this ordinance, including a grant in the
amount of $5,000 from LAND Studio
for the purposes of this ordinance,
Request No. RQA 4004 RL 2010-114.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 3 and 7 of Ordinance No.
663-10, passed May 17, 2010, are
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 66310, passed May 17, 2010, is supplemented by enacting new Section 5a to
read as follows:
Section 5a. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 5b. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$5,000, from LAND Studio for the rehabilitation of the Lake Avenue and
West 76th Street pedestrian tunnels;
that the Director is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.

26
Ord. No. 681-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 37313 passed March 18, 2013 as it pertains to the Broadway School of
Music and Arts for the Fine Arts
Program
through
the
use
of
Ward(s) 12, 3 and 5 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 373-13 passed March 18,
2013 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective January 2, 2013
with the Broadway School of Music
and Arts for the Fine Arts Program
for providing music education to low
and moderate income students residing in the city of Cleveland through
the use of Ward(s) 12, 3, and 5 Neighborhood E2quity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 373-13 passed March 18, 2013
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 693-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with Mt. Pleasant
Community Zone for the Health and
Human Services Community Fair
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective March 1, 2013
with the Mt. Pleasant Community
Zone for the Health and Human Services Community Fair for the public purpose of providing health education and health screenings to city
of Cleveland residents through the
use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 706-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the American Lung Association Walk, on May 18, 2013, sponsored by the American Lung Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the American Lung
Association Walk, on May 18, 2013,
start: Jacobs Pavillion, Syracuse to
Main Ave.; Main Ave to Center St.;
Center St. to Merwin Ave.; Merwin
Ave. through City Park to W. St.
Clair Ave.; W. St. Clair Ave.; to W.
6th St.; W. 6th St. to W. Superior
Ave.; W. Superior Ave. to W. 3rd St.;
W. 3rd St. to W. Lakeside Ave.; W.
Lakeside to W. 6th St.; W. 6th St. to
W. St. Clair Ave.; W. St. Clair Ave.;
to City Park; City Park to Merwin
Ave.; Merwin Ave.; to Center St.;
Center St. to Washington Ave.;
Washington Ave. to Jacobs Pavillion; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 707-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Northeast Ohio Kidney Walk, on June 9, 2013, sponsored by the National Kidney Foundation.

776

May 8, 2013
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Northeast Ohio
Kidney Walk, on June 9, 2013, start:
Great
Lakes
Science
Center,
Erieside to West 3rd; West 3rd to Al
Lerner Way; Al Lerner Way to
Erieside; Erieside to East 9th; cross
East 9th to North Marginal; North
Marginal to Burke Airport Loop;
Burke Airport Loop to North Marginal; North Marginal to East 9th;
East 9th to Voinovich Park; turn
around East 9th to Erieside to Great
Lake Science Center-finish line; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 708-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Winking Lizard Shot
in the Dark Walk/Run, on July 20,
2013,
sponsored
by
the
Hermes
Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Winking Lizard
Shot in the Dark Walk/Run, on July
20, 2013, start: 4 Mile: Huron to
Ontario;
Ontario
to
Carnegie;
Carnegie to Lorain; Lorain to Fulton; Fulton to West 28th; West 28th
to Detroit; Detroit to Superior; Superior to Huron; Huron to East 4th-finish line; 2 Mile Walk: Huron
across Ontario to Superior; Superior
across Veterans Memorial Bridge to
West 25th; turn around return same
route to finish line—East 4th; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordi-

May 8, 2013
nances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 709-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Escape on the Lake
Run, on July 13, 2013, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Escape on the
Lake Run, on July 13, 2013, start:
Lakeshore & East 185th; Lakeshore
to Schenely; Schenely to Dorchester;
Dorchester to Neff; Neff into State
park; turn around at Park, return
same route to finish line; provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 711-13.
By Council Members Keane, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to name
the concession stand at Maplewood
Park the “Martin J. Sweeney Concession Stand”.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name of the concession
stand at Maplewood Park shall be
the “Martin J. Sweeney Concession
Stand” and that the Director of Public Works is authorized and directed to take the necessary action to
affect said naming and to post the
proper signs at said concession
stand.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 682-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Miller and Kelley.
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to
improving Clifton Boulevard from
West 115th Street to Lake Avenue
by relaying and repairing sidewalks, including adjustments of
castings, if necessary, encroaching
upon the public right-of-way.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
271-13, adopted March 25, 2013, this
Council declared the necessity of
improving Clifton Boulevard from
West 115th Street to Lake Avenue
by relaying and repairing sidewalks, including adjustments of
castings, if necessary, encroaching
upon the public right-of-way; and
Whereas, under the above resolution the estimated assessments for
the improvement have been prepared and placed on file in the
office of the Clerk of this Council;
and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
the resolution and of the filing of
the
estimated
assessments
have
been duly served on all property
owners to be assessed in the manner provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to the
estimated assessments may be filed
by one or more property owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Mary P. Denihan,
Edward J. Kostyo, and Jacqueline
Henderson three disinterested freeholders of the City, are appointed as
assessment equalization boards for
the assessment and Eugene Molton, a
disinterested freeholder, is appointed

777

27
alternate member, to hear and determine all written objections filed
under the law to the estimated assessments for each of the respective
assessment areas heretofore filed
with the Clerk of this Council under
Resolution No. 271-13, adopted March
25, 2013, by this Council.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet beginning at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday, May 28,
2013, at Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 518, for the purposes mentioned above, and on completion of the hearing and any
adjournments, shall report its recommendations, including any changes
which should be made in the estimated assessments for each assessment
area, to this Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to notify,
by certified mail, each person who
has filed timely written objection to
the estimated assessments of the time
and place of the hearing of the assessment equalization boards.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 683-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
5110 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 9089530; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

28
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 9089530, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeand
diately
upon
its
adoption
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 684-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 3924 East 71st Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1081-12,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 9089530; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 9089530, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 685-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 7763-71 Broadway Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1090-12, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to WEP, Inc., DBA Bum’s Saloon,
7763-71 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
9323549 by Resolution No. 1090-12,
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
WEP, Inc., DBA Bum’s Saloon, 7763-71
Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 9323549, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1090-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the

778

May 8, 2013
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 686-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 13411 Miles
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1094-12, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 9089530; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 9089530, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

May 8, 2013
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 687-13.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 4142 Rocky River Drive
and repealing Resolution No. 676-12,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to 4142
Rocky River Drive, Cleveland, Ohio
44135, Permanent No. 7460895 by Resolution No. 676-12 adopted by the
Council on May 7, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 4142 Rocky River
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent No. 7460895, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
676-12, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 694-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a Liquor Agency Contract
located at 4127 East 131st Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a
Liquor Agency Contract at Miles
Management Corporation, 4127 East
131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 5950070; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

The City Record
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a Liquor
Agency Contract at Miles Management Corporation, 4127 East 131st
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 5950070; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 710-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution fixing
the 2013 summer schedule of meetings of the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the schedule of
meetings during the 2013 summer
months of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is hereby fixed as follows:

779

29
July 10, 2013
August 14, 2013
A notice identifying the time of the
meeting as well as a schedule of committee meetings, if any, to be held
prior to the meeting shall be prepared
by the Clerk prior to each of the above
meeting dates. The Council will
resume regular session at 7:00 p.m. on
Monday, September 16, 2013.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 488-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Relations to apply for and accept a grant
from Cuyahoga County Juvenile
Court to conduct the 2013 Community
Diversion Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Relations, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Public Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 489-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the Safe and
Sound PREA Project; and authorizing
the Director to enter into one or more
contracts with Cuyahoga County to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 6, and in Section
5, line 2, after “County” insert “and the
Cleveland Rape Crisis Center”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 490-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the report of the assessment equalization boards on objections concerning
estimated assessments to relay and
repair sidewalks, driveway aprons,
and curbs (including adjustments of
castings and landscaping, if necessary) encroaching upon the public
right-of-ways or otherwise improving

30
the right-of-ways on West 105th
Street, West 106th Street, West 114th
Street and East 151st Street; determining to proceed with the improvements; and adopting the equalized
assessments.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 495-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary for analysis,
identification, storage, remediation,
transportation, recycling and disposal of various chemicals, hazardous
waste products and other non-hazardous and recyclable waste materials for the Division of Water, Cleveland Public Power, and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period up to two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 566-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cleveland Housing Network for professional services necessary to provide administration and other related
services for the Division of Water’s
discount affordability program, for a
period of one year, with one option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 8, and in Section 1, line 6, strike “one option” and
insert “one one-year option”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 567-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of fencing, gate operators,
gates, barriers, walls, and guardrails,
including associated appurtenances,
and labor and materials necessary to
repair or maintain existing equipment and appurtenances, including
installation if necessary at various
facilities, for the various divisions of

The City Record
the Department of Public Utilities, for
a period not to exceed two years, with
two one-year options to renew, the
first of which requires additional legislation.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 568-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply for
and accept a grant from the National
Council on Aging for the 2013-14 Economic Security Project for Cleveland
Seniors Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the absence of Council Member Martin J. Sweeney is hereby
authorized. Seconded by Council
Member Miller.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:32 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 13,
2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

May 8, 2013
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 195-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter 181.19 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and Resolution No.
912-52, adopted by the Board of Control on November 26, 1952, the report
of the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies for the sale of scrap,
personal property, and by-products
during the month of March, 2013 in
the amount of $18,870.42, attached
and made a part of this resolution
is received, approved and ordered
filed.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Nichols.
Resolution No. 196-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of D & M Painting Corporation for the public improvement of
Rehabilitating
Secondary
Sites
Cycle F, including Water Towers.
Tanks and Appurtenances, including
a $393,000.00 contingency allowance,
all items, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on January 25, 2013, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 81008, passed June 9, 2008, upon a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $4,433,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by D &
M Painting Corporation for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Nerone & Sons, Inc. (CSB)
$817,000.00
18.430%

BOARD OF CONTROL

May 1, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 1, 2013 at
10:36 a.m. with Director Langhenry
presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler, Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

780

Post Painting, Inc. (CSB/FBE)
$250,000.00
5.640%
All Construction &
Remodeling (CSB)

$650,000.00
14.663%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

May 8, 2013
Resolution No. 197-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Bonded Chemicals, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of sodium
hypochlorite solution, items 1A and
1B, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on March 6, 2013 under the authority of Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$1,201,920.00 (Net 30), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services necessary for the
specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 198-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Terrace Construction
Co., Inc. for the public improvement
of Woodland Ave. (E. 53rd St. to E.
86th St.) and Buckeye Rd. (Woodland Ave. to Ambler St.), all items,
including all Alternates, items 1
through 219, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects,
received on April 17, 2013, under the
authority of Ordinances Nos. 591-11
and 733-12, passed by Cleveland City
Council on June 6, 2011 and June 4,
2012 respectively, upon a unit price
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of $7,395,316.66, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction
Co., Inc. for the above-mentioned
public improvement is approved:
Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $1,278,610.26 — (17.3%)
The Vallejo Company
(CSB/MBE) — $722,867.93 — (9.8%)
Trafftech, Inc.
(CSB) — $218,521.81 — (3.0%)
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

The City Record

31

Resolution No. 199-13.
By Directors Cox and Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Industrial Energy
Systems, Inc. (CSB/LPE), for the
public improvement of Estabrook
Recreation Center Roof Improvements, for Base Bid Items A, B and
C and Optional Items 4 and 5 for the
Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Department of Public
Works, Mayor’s Office of Capital
Projects received on April 5, 2013,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
533-12, passed on June 4, 2012, upon
a gross price basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$489,870.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid; and
the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Industrial
Energy
Systems,
Inc.
(CSB/LPE) for the aforementioned
public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Troutman Supply (MBE/FBE)
$82,872.00
10.150%
Decker Steel & Supply (CSB)
$35,590.00
4.359%
Pete & Pete Container
(CSB/FBE)

$15,000.00
3.062%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 200-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, All Star Valet Services
has proposed to offer valet parking
services to the general public for
the Mental Health Reception event
to be held at Cleveland City Hall
Rotunda by using the Willard Park
Garage; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with All Star
Valet Services to use Willard Park
Garage to offer valet parking services to the public for the Mental
Health Reception event to be held
at the Cleveland City Hall Rotunda
on May 4, 2013, for a fee of $450.00.
The concession agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit public interest.

781

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 201-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, NOW Valet Company
has proposed to offer valet parking
services to the general public for
various events to be held at Cleveland Public Auditorium by using the
Willard Park Garage; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with NOW Valet
Company
to
use
Willard
Park
Garage to offer valet parking services to the public for the following
event to be held at the Cleveland
Public Auditorium on May 11, 2013
for a fee per event of $450.00 plus
$5.00 per vehicle parked:
EVENT
Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame Annual Benefit

DATE

May 11, 2013

The concession agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 202-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Nerone & Sons, Inc.
(CSB/LPE) for the public improvement of Estabrook Recreation Center Parking Lot Improvements, for
Base Bid Items A1-A13 including the
10% contingency and Base Bid
Items B1-B30, B32-B39, Alternate
Item 1A including the 5% contingency for the Division of Architecture and Site Development, Department of Public Works, received on
March 14, 2013, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 534-12, passed on
June 4, 2012, upon a unit basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $427,132.79, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized
to
enter
into
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Nerone & Sons, Inc. (CSB/LPE) for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:

The City Record

32
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Cunningham Paving (CSB)
$180,800.00
42.329%
Granger Trucking (CSB/MBE)
$ 12,000.00
2.809%
Tech Ready Mix (CSB/MBE)
$ 2,500.00
0.585%
Royal Landscape (CSB/FBE)
$ 1,700.00
0.398%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 203-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Northeast Lubricants, Ltd,
for an estimated quantity of automobile and equipment lubricants,
Parts A, C, D, and E, all items, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on March
15, 2013, under the authority of Section 131.64 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $222,978.25
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Works is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 204-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Frank Blackmon, for an
estimated quantity of automobile
and equipment lubricants, Part B,
all items, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Works, for the period of one
year, beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
March 15, 2013, under the authority
of Section 131.64 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $57,614.06
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Works is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
specified.

May 8, 2013

The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 205-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Nerone & Sons, Inc.
(CSB/LPE) for the public improvement of Groton Park Site Improvements, for Base Bid Items 1-36 and
Add Alternate Items 2AA-9AA and
12AA including the 5% contingency
for the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Department of
Public Works, received on March 14,
2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 607-10, passed on June 7,
2010, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $194,608.05, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized
to
enter
into
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
by
the
following
subcontractors
Nerone & Sons, Inc. (CSB/LPE) for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Royal Landscape (CSB/FBE)
$15,473.00
7.951%
Tech Ready Mix (CSB/MBE)
$ 6,000.00
3.083%
Granger Trucking (CSB/MBE)
$ 5,000.00
2.569%
Ballast Fence (CSB/FBE) $ 2,920.00
1.500%
Cunningham Paving (CSB)
$ 1,500.00
0.771%
Krusoe Sign (CSB/FBE)

T.B.D.
T.B.D.

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 206-13.
By Director Rush.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
638-11, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 23, 2011,
the Graddic Company is selected
from a list of firms determined after

782

a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Community Development
as the firm to be employed by contract to perform the professional services
necessary
to
conduct
HOME/Uniform
Relocation
Act
(URA) Program Property Standards,
Decent, Safe and Sanitary Dwelling
Inspections of units previously completed under a Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Program, for
the Division of Administrative Services, Department of Community
Development.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to enter into contract
with the Graddic Company, based on
its proposal dated November 15,
2012, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for the furnishing of professional services as described in
the proposal for the 2013-2014 term
for an aggregate fee of $52,282.50,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 207-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-08-087 located at 3160 West
61st Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Maggie’s Farm, LLC has
proposed to the City to lease and
develop the parcel for market garden; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of five years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Maggie’s Farm,

May 8, 2013
LLC for the lease and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 016-08-087
located at 3160 West 61st Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $5.00,
which amount is determined to be
not less than the fair market value
of the parcel for uses according to
the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 208-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-15-139 located at 3478 West
63rd Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, NxGen Preserve has proposed to the City to lease and develop the parcel for a pocket park; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of five years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with NxGen Preserve
for the lease and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
016-15-139
located at 3478 West 63rd Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $5.00,
which amount is determined to be
not less than the fair market value
of the parcel for uses according to
the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.

The City Record
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 209-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-33-021 located at 1892 Woodland Avenue in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, John E. Allen and Rosetta Allen have proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcel
for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with John E. Allen
and Rosetta Allen for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 120-33-021 located at 1892 Woodland Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 210-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 126-03-052 located at 2428 East
84th Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commis-

783

33
sioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Vera Brewer has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Vera Brewer for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 126-03-052 located at
2428 East 84th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 211-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 137-19-117 located at 13821 Svec
Avenue in Ward 4; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jerry Eades and Rosa
Eades have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 4 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,

34
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jerry Eades and
Rosa Eades for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 13719-117 located at 13821 Svec Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, BenSmith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
der,
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 212-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 120-10-077 located at 1463 East
118th Street in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Clara A. Everett has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Clara A. Everett
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 120-10-077 located
at 1463 East 118th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the

The City Record
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 213-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 106-04-091 located on Addison
Road in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Pearlie Jones has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Pearlie Jones for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 106-04-091 located on
Addison Road, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 214-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and

784

May 8, 2013
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
108-13-148
located
at
10558
Glenville Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Edward L. Leavy has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Edward L. Leavy
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 108-13-148 located
at 10558 Glenville Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 215-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 142-05-067 located at 4115 East
147th Street in Ward 1; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Lula Mayfield has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 1 has approved the proposed

May 8, 2013
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Lula Mayfield for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 142-05-067 located at
4115 East 147th Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 216-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 117-23-001 located at 17724 Rookwood Road in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Helen E. Minniefield has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Helen E. Minniefield for the sale and develop-

The City Record
ment of Permanent Parcel No. 11723-001 located at 17724 Rookwood
Road, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 217-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-25-092 located at 6527 Schaefer Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jason Phillips has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jason Phillips for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 105-25-092 located at
6527 Schaefer Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

785

35
Resolution No. 218-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
110-14-054
at
12513
located
Arlington Avenue in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Douglas Edward Samuel
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Douglas Edward
Samuel for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 110-14-054
located at 12513 Arlington Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 219-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 110-24-028 located at 12313 Forest
Grove Avenue in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

The City Record

36
Whereas, Leora VanDyke has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Leora VanDyke
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 110-24-028 located
at
12313
Forest
Grove
Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Bender,
Smith,
Cox,
Butler,
Acting
Director Withers, Directors Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 20, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-62: 2676 West 14th
Street (Ward 3)
Walter
Holtkamp,
owner,
and
Sean Kelly and Andrea Thornton,
prospective tenants, appeal to establish use for a tattoo studio in an
existing building located on a 148'
x 83' parcel in a D2 Local Retail
Business District; a use not permitted under Section 343.01 and first
permitted in a General Retail District subject to the requirements
under Section 347.12(b) that the use
must be 1,000 feet from a residence
district, church, playground, day
care or community center and the
proposed use is within 1,000 feet of
residential districts to the east, west
and south; four churches, a Hunger
Center, Lincoln Park and Playground; a day care and community
center.
Calendar No. 13-63: 1002 Kenilworth
Avenue (Ward 3)
John Meigs, owner, appeals to
erect a 19' x 22'-6" one and a half
story frame, attached garage and
roof deck to an existing nonconforming building located on a 40' x
93' parcel in a B1 Two-Family District; contrary to Section 355.04(b) a
maximum gross floor area of 3,621
square feet is proposed and 1,860 is
permitted; and prosing a rear yard
depth of 1'-6" contrary to 20 feet
and Section 357.08(b)(1) and a distance of 5'-6" contrary to 10 feet
from a main building on an adjoining lot and an interior side yard of
1'-6" where the minimum required is
3 feet in accordance with Sections
357.09(2)A and B and pursuant to
Section 359.01(a) in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances approval for the
expansion of a nonconforming use
requires
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeals approval.
Calendar No. 13-66: 2280 East 55th
Street (Ward 5)
Elabed, LLC, owner, appeals to
construct a new retail store proposed to be on consolidated parcels
located in split zoning between General Retail Business and Multi-Family Districts; subject to the limitations under Section 337.08 the use is
not permitted and first permitted
under Section 343.01 in a Local
Retail District and proposing a 4
feet high board on board fence
where a decorative fence at least
fifty percent open is required along
East 49th Street in accordance with
Section 358.04 in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-67: 5400 Herman
Avenue (Ward 15)
Argentina Rocco, owner, appeals
to include a 24' x 40' outdoor patio
with a 38' x 40' legal nonconforming tavern in a B2 Two Family District; for which the expansion of
nonconforming use is not permitted
except as a variance in accordance
with Section 359.01(a); and contrary
to Sections 358.04(a) and (c) chain
link fence 6 feet high is not permitted in front and side yards of a
residence district; and subject to

786

May 8, 2013
Section 349.07(b) accessory off-street
parking spaces must be provided
with wheel or bumper guards and
pursuant to Section 325.03, must be
at least 180 square feet. No striping
designating
off-street
parking
spaces is provided nor shown on the
lot; and contrary to Sections 352.0812 no landscaping is provided where
the parking lot abuts the street and
a 6 foot width providing fifty percent year round opacity is required
and an 8 foot width providing seventy-five percent opacity is required
where the use abuts the Two Family district; and under the provisions
in Section 357.13, parking is not a
permitted front yard encroachment.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-71: 17604 Sedalia
Avenue (Ward 19)
Khalil Rasheed appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and disputes the
decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau Waste Collection and Photo
Safety Division on January 16, 2013
and
the
violation
information
described on Civil Infraction Ticket
Number WC00155036, issued October
8, 2012 for the property located at
17604 Sedalia Avenue and failure to
comply with Section 551.111(B) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
(Filed 4-24-13)
Calendar No. 13-73: 11607 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 9)
Maximum Independence Living,
owner, appeals to renovate a 6-story,
35 unit apartment building and
change the use of 2,600 square feet
of first floor office space to retail
use, subject to lot split and consolidation of parcels and located in a
C2 General Retail Business District;
requiring accessory off-street parking at the rate of one space per
dwelling unit, plus one space per
500 square feet of retail space pursuant to Section 349.04(a)(f) and
with the proposed lot split, no accessory off-street parking is provided
and an existing parking lot will be
in different title ownership than the
subject parcel; and in the provisions
of Section 349.02 existing parking
facilities in all use districts shall
not voluntarily be reduced below the
parking requirements in Chapter 349
of the Cleveland Zoning Code.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MAY 6, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 6,
2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-58: 8902 Detroit
Avenue, aka 1381 West 91st Street
Algart Realty Company appealed
to install 84 linear feet of 8-feet high
chain link fence in the actual front
and rear yards of property in a B1
Two-Family District; subject to conditions.

The City Record

May 8, 2013

37

Calendar
No.
13-59:
10515
Eliot
Avenue
Marcella Truett appealed to erect
a second floor addition to a single
family dwelling in a B1 Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 13-55: 8200 Bessemer
Avenue
Sidako Bessemer I LLC appealed
to install 10-foot high electrified
fence in a B3 General Industry District.

The
following
DENIED:

Calendar No. 13-56: 6005 Truscon
Avenue
Truscon Realty, LLC appealed to
install 10-foot high electrified fence
in a B3 General Industry District.

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-57:
Fahkari Mhmoud appealed from a
decision of the City of Cleveland
Parking Violations Bureau, Waste
Collection and Photo Safety Division
and
Civil
Infraction
Ticket
WC00160473.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 13-61: 1662 Crawford
Avenue
City of Cleveland, owner, and
Jamel Rahkeera, prospective tenant,
appealed to erect a farm stand and
a hoop house on an irregular shaped
parcel in a D2 Multi-Family District.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-234: 2277 East 49th
Street (PPN 104-24-063)
Farid Elabed and Fatima Lange
appealed from a decision of the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses.
Calendar No. 12-235: 2256 East 55th
Street (PPN 103-24-080)
Elabed, LLC appealed from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
Calendar No. 12-236: 2256 East 55th
Street (PPN 103-24-081)
Elabed, LLC appealed from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
Calendar No. 12-237: 2276 East 55th
Street (PPN 103-24-0840)
Fatima Lange appealed from a
decision of the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
None.

appeal

was

Calendar No. 13-44: 3682 East 131st
Street
Wilson Fisher, Jr. appealed from
a denied application for a Motor
Vehicle Repair Garage License by
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
Public notice is hereby given that
the
City
of
Cleveland
Public
Records Committee will hold a Regular Meeting on Thursday, May 30,
2013 in the City Law Department’s
South Conference Room, located at
Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, East, Room 106, commencing at 9:00 a.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.
Maureen Harper, Chair

April 24, 2013, May 1, 2013, May 8,
2013, May 15, 2013 and May 22, 2013

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

The following appeal was remanded to the City of Cleveland Parking
Violations Bureau, Photo Safety and
Waste Collection for appropriate
process of the request for a hearing.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-60: 13406 Rugby
Road
Sharon Richardson appealed from
Civil
Infraction
Number
WC000958777 issued by the Division
of Waste Collection.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on April 29, 2013 were
adopted and approved on May 6,
2013:
The
following
APPROVED:

The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-47: 806 Literary
Avenue
Sandy Banks LLC appealed for
use of an outdoor patio area and
construction of patio walls ion a C1
General Retail Business District.

_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 15, 2013
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, May 15, 2013, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 825-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the zoning of the Southern Half of the prop-

787

erty located at 1805 Spring Road to
Urban Garden District. (Map Change
No. 2335, Sheet No. 2)
Ord. No. 603-11.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height District of land
located on the north and south sides
of Hough Avenue between E. 55th
Street and E. 75th Street to MultiFamily Residential District, a ‘D’
Area District and a ‘2’ Height District(Map Change No. 2362, Sheet
Numbers 4 & 5).
Ord. No. 1559-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of lands located at the
intersection of Clark Avenue and W.
65th Street to Local Retail Business
and changing Use District of lands
north of Storer Ave. between W.
63rd St. and W. 67 Place to General
Industry as shown shaded on the
map (Map Change Number 2427).
Ord. No. 25-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands on the
north and south sides of Lorain
Avenue between West Boulevard
and W. 94th Street shown shaded on
the attached map to Local Retail
Business and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2428).
Ord. No. 505-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Groh Mansion as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 506-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Stockbridge Apartment
Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 512-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) on
and changing the Use District of
lands located at E. 156 St. and Calcutta Avenue from a Two Family
Residential District to Local Retail
Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a
‘2’ Height District (Map Change No.
2430).
Ord. No. 572-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on the north side
of Fairlawn Avenue at W. 146th
Street to Semi-Industry conditioned
upon attached Site Development
Plan (Map Change No. 2432).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
May 1, 2013 and May 8, 2013

The City Record

38
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 2013
File No. 75-13 — First Energy Stadium Insurance, for the Division
of First Energy Stadium, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 14, 2013 AT 11:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
May 1, 2013 and May 8, 2013
WEDNESDAY, MAY 29, 2013
File No. 80-13 — Diesel Fuel, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Section
131.65 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRI-

DAY, MAY 17, 2013 AT 10:00 A.M.
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44105.
May 8, 2013 and May 15, 2013
FRIDAY, MAY 31, 2013
File No. 79-13 — Disposal of Catch
Basin Debris, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY,
MAY 21, 2013 AT 11:00 A.M. DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY
AVENUE, RED CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
May 8, 2013 and May 15, 2013
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 2013
File No. 77-13 — Labor and Materials for the Maintenance, Repair,
or Replacement of Test Equipment and Training as Necessary
(Re-bid), for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1183-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 18, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING, CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 78-13 — Purchase of High
Voltage
Switching
Equipment,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING, CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
May 8, 2013 and May 15, 2013
FRIDAY, JUNE 7, 2013
File
No.
76-13
—
Utility
Pole
Replacement Labor and Material
to Test, Repair, Remove and
Replace
Deteriorating
Copper
Naphthenate-Treated
Utility
Poles, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.26 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE

788

May 8, 2013
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS
($125.00) ONLY IN THE FORM
OF A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 AT 10:00 A.M.
TOM L. JOHNSON BUILDING,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 8, 2013 and May 15, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 251-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Carnation Court N.E. (10.00 feet
wide).
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Carnation Court N.E.
(10.00 feet wide), as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
A portion of Carnation Court N.E.
(10.00 feet wide)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and being part of Original 100
Acre Lot numbers 364 and 365, further described as follows:
All that portion of Carnation
Court N.E. (10.00 feet wide) extending from the East right of way of
East 124th Street (40.00 feet wide)
to the West right of way of East
125th Street (60.00 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Res. No. 370-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Gould Court N.W. (16.5 Feet Wide).

May 8, 2013
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Gould Court N.W. (16.5
Feet Wide), as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
A portion of Gould Court N.W. 16.5
(Feet Wide) (formerly know as the
first unnamed alley running east and
west, south of Bridge Avenue N.W.
(formerly Bridge Street) and east of
West 25th Street (formerly Pearl
Street)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being part of original Brooklyn
Township lot number 70 as shown in
the Willeyville Allotment recorded in
volume 2, page 16 of the Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records’
further
described as follows;
All that portion of Gould Court N.W.
(16.5 Feet Wide) extending from the
east right of way of West 25th Street
(82.50 Feet Wide) to the west right of
way of West 24th place (16.5 Feet
Wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Res. No. 621-13.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3226 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 657
East 152nd Street by Resolution No.
1091-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon a cooperation agreement between Applicant Yaser S.
Najjar, President of East 152nd
Street, Inc., and Councilman Michael
D. Polensek; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to East 152nd Inc.,
657 East 152nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 2405365 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1091-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council

The City Record
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Res. No. 622-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D4 and D6 Liquor Permit to
3400 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a D4
and D6 Liquor Permit from Ronndurah Properties, LLC, DBA Prodigy Club/Club Prodigy, Southeast
Unit, 3801 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
7505402 to Ronndurah Properties,
LLC, DBA Prodigy Lounge, 3400 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 75054020001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D4 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Ronndurah Properties,

789

39
LLC, DBA Prodigy Club/Club Prodigy, Southeast Unit, 3801 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7505402 to Ronndurah Properties, LLC, DBA Prodigy
Lounge, 3400 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
75054020001; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Res. No. 633-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
12401 Corlett Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Amana My Way
Deli, Inc., DBA Corlett Deli, 12401
Corlett
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105, Permit Number 01608940005;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section

40
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Amana My Way
Deli, Inc., DBA Corlett Deli, 12401 Corlett Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permit Number 01608940005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Res. No. 635-13.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution encouraging the Jackson administration to
review its laws for gender-biased
terminology and to revise its laws
to make the language gender-neutral.
Whereas, U.S. cities and states
have begun to review their laws to
remove gender bias from the language; and
Whereas, words such as “watchmen”, “policemen” and “firemen” are
being revised to “security guards”,
“police officers” and “firefighters”
and
Whereas, many laws were written
decades ago when women were not

May 8, 2013
a major part of the public sector
workforce; and
Whereas, words help shape perceptions about people and opportunities available to people; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council encourages the Jackson administration to
review its laws for gender –biased terminology and to revise its laws to
make the language gender-neutral.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 133-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use and Height Districts of lands located on the southwest corner of Fulton Road
and Bailey Avenue to Two Family Residential, and a ‘1’ Height District or a Local Retail Business District as
indicated on the attached map (Map Change No. 2402).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Fulton Road at its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline
of Bailey Avenue;
Thence westerly along said prolongation of said centerline of Bailey Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of Bailey Court;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said centerline of Bailey Court and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with a northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Desoto Properties, LLC by deed dated
May 3, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200105031191; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 007-07-044;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Desoto Properties, LLC by deed dated May 3, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200105031191;
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 007-07-037;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 37 Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 37 Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Cleveland RTA by deed dated September 5, 1975 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number V75138690608; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 007-15-004;
Thence easterly and northeasterly along said northerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of Fulton Road;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Fulton Road to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
centerline of Bailey Avenue and the principal place of beginning,
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bailey Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of Bailey Court;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said centerline of Bailey Court and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with a northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Desoto Properties, LLC by deed dated
May 3, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200105031191; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 007-07-044;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed dated September 11, 2000 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number 200009190072, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 007-07-042;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line and continuing along its northerly
prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Bailey Avenue;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District, and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 3. That the changed designation of lands described in Sections 1 and 2 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2402 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

790

May 8, 2013

The City Record

Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 29, 2013.

791

41

42
Ord. No. 196-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Jonell Centre (formerly
the Garfield Savings Bank and the
Cleveland Trust Company) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Jonell
Centre (formerly the Garfield Savings Bank and the Cleveland Trust
Company) as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Jonell
Centre (formerly the Garfield Savings Bank and the Cleveland Trust
Company) has been properly notified and has consented in writing to
the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Jonell
Centre (formerly the Garfield Savings Bank and the Cleveland Trust
Company) as a landmark and has
set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Jonell Centre
(formerly
the
Garfield
Savings
Bank and the Cleveland Trust Company), whose street address in the
City of Cleveland is 10518 Superior
Avenue,
N.E.,
Cuyahoga
County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number
is 120-01-003, and is also known as
the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot Number 166 in the Sarah
Phillips Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Numbers
386 and 387; said Sublot Number 166
is 40 feet front on the Southerly side
of Superior avenue, N.E., and extends back 122.65 feet deep on the
Easterly line, 117.31 feet deep on the
Westerly line, and is 40.36 feet wide
on a 12 foot alley (Rockhurst Avenue, N.E.) in the rear, according to
the plat of said Subdivision recorded in Volume 19 of Maps, Page 23
of Cuyahoga County Records, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways;
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 197-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church (formerly the
Morison Avenue Communal Baths)
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Morison
Avenue Missionary Baptist Church
(formerly the Morison Avenue Communal Baths) as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Morison
Avenue Missionary Baptist Church
(formerly the Morison Avenue Communal Baths) has been properly
notified and has consented in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas,
the
Commission
has
recommended designation of the
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist
Church (formerly the Morison Avenue Communal Baths) as a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis
for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church (formerly the Morison Avenue Communal Baths), whose street address in
the City of Cleveland is 10606 Morison Avenue, N.E., Cuyahoga County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number
is 109-14-103, and is also known as
the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Number
378,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Known as being Sublot Number 67
in the Cottage Home Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Number 378 as shown by the
recorded plat of said allotment in
Volume 16 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot
Number 67 has a frontage of 40 feet
on the Southerly side of Morison
Avenue,
N.E.
(formerly
Morison
Street), and extends back between
parallel lines 125 and 65/100 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways;
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part

792

May 8, 2013
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 237-13.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 3 of Ordinance
No. 1449-11, passed October 24, 2011,
and the title and Section 4 of Ordinance 1248-12, passed September 24,
2012, relating to the Ohio Office of
Criminal Justice Services grant for
the Veterans Treatment Docket Program for the Cleveland Municipal
Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That title and Section 3
of Ordinance No. 1449-11, passed
October 24, 2011, is amended to read
as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the Veterans Court – Treatment Program; and to enter into one
or more contracts with Y-Haven to
implement the program.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Y-Haven to implement the program as
described in the file.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1449-11,
passed October 24, 2011 is repealed.
Section 3. That the title and Section
4 of Ordinance 1248-12, passed September 24, 2012, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the Veterans Treatment
Docket Program; and to enter into one
or more contracts with Y-Haven, to
implement the program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Y-Haven, to implement the program
as described in the file.
Section 4. That the existing title
and Section 4 of Ordinance 1248-12,
passed
September
24,
2012,
is
repealed.

May 8, 2013
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 249-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland, Kelley and Dow (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 66th Place.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1066-12, adopted October 22, 2012,
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of East 66th Place;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on January 14, 2013, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Being all that portion of East 66th
Place (12 feet wide), extending from
the northerly right of way line of
Lexington Avenue N.E. (60 feet
wide), northerly to its terminus with
that vacated portion of East 66th
Place as shown in City of Cleveland
ordinance 914-07 passed August 8,
2007.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Cleveland Public Power,
Dominion East Ohio Gas, AT&T, the
Division of Water, and the Illuminating Company (CEI).
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Cleveland Public Power, Dominion
East Ohio Gas, AT&T, the Division
of Water, the Illuminating Company
(CEI), and the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Manager of Engineering
and Construction is directed to

The City Record
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Fiscal Officer
of Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 316-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Craig Motor Company
Building (also known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn
Building) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Craig
Motor
Company
Building
(also
known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn Building) as a
landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on November 8, 2012 to discuss
the proposed designation of the
Craig
Motor
Company
Building
(also known as the National Casket
Company and the Kohn Building) as
a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Craig
(also
Motor
Company
Building
known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn Building) as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Craig Motor
Company Building (also known as
the National Casket Company and
the Kohn Building), whose street
address in the City of Cleveland is
3800-12 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Number is 103-08-011 and is also
known as the following described
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 1 and 2 in Mueller and
Meyer’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 68, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 53 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:

793

43
Beginning at a point on the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, distant 409 and 69/100 feet Westerly
from the point of intersection of
said Southerly line of Euclid Avenue
with the Westerly line of East 40th
Street, said place of beginning being
also the Northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to S. W. Crittenden
by deed dated July 31, 1865, and
recorded in Volume 135, Page 566 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 75 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to William G. Rose by
deed dated July 3, 1884, and recorded in Volume 371, Page 155 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Southerly at right angles to Euclid Avenue, and along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to William G.
Rose, 223 and 92/100 feet to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 2;
thence Easterly parallel to the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue and
along the Southerly line of said
Sublots Nos. 2 and 1, 75 feet to the
Westerly line of land conveyed to S.
W. Crittenden as aforesaid; thence
Northerly at right angles to Euclid
Avenue and along the Westerly line
of land so conveyed to S. W. Crittenden, 223 and 92/100 feet to the
place of beginning, Permanent Parcel No(s): 103-08-011;
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 317-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Cleveland
Masonic Temple as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on November 8, 2012 to discuss
the proposed designation of the
Cleveland Masonic Temple as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and

44
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Cleveland
Masonic Temple, whose street address in the City of Cleveland is
3615-35 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Numbers are 103-07-005 and 103-07-006
and is also known as the following
described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Ten Acre Lot No. 91, bounded and described as follows:
1. Beginning in the north line of
Euclid Avenue at the Southwest corner of lands conveyed by Mabel
Weddell to Samuel E. Williamson by
deed dated September 12, 1895 and
recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly along the North line of
Euclid Avenue one hundred and ten
(110) feet; thence Northerly and parallel to the West line of said land
so conveyed in Volume 614, Page 23
about five hundred and fifty (550)
feet to the Southerly line of an alley
ten (10) feet wide in the Subdivision
of Webster and Weddell which is
recorded in Volume 13, Page 36 of
Cuyahoga County Records of Maps
and Subdivisions; thence Westerly
and along the Southerly line of said
ten foot alley, about one hundred
and ten (110) feet to the West line
of said lands so conveyed to Samuel
E. Williamson by deed recorded in
Volume 614, Page 23; thence Southerly along the West line of said lands
so conveyed to Samuel E. Williamson about five hundred and fifty
(550) feet to the place of beginning;
2. Beginning on the Easterly line
of lands conveyed by Mabel Weddell
to Samuel E. Williamson by deed
dated September 12, 1895, and recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records at a point two
hundred (200) feet Southerly measured on said Easterly line from the
Southerly line of the ten (10) foot
alley which forms the Northerly
boundary of Grantor’s land; which
point of beginning is also about
three hundred and fifty (350) feet
Northerly, measured on said Easterly line from the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue; thence Northerly
along said Easterly line two hundred (200) feet to the Southerly line
of the aforementioned alley; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said alley one hundred and eleven
(111) feet to the Westerly line of
Grantor's lands; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line two hundred (200) feet; thence Easterly in
a straight line about one hundred
and eleven (111) feet to the place of
beginning, be the same, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways;
3. Beginning on the Northerly line
of Euclid Avenue at a point 110 feet

The City Record
Easterly, as measured on said line
from the Southwesterly corner of
lands conveyed by Mabel Weddell to
Samuel
E.
Williamson
by
deed
recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue one hundred and
eleven (111) feet; thence Northerly
along the Easterly line of land so
conveyed by deed recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records about three hundred and
fifty (350) feet to the Southeasterly
corner of premises conveyed by Jane
A. Tracy and Edward Bushnell,
Trustees under the last will of
James J. Tracy to the Masonic
Building Association by deed dated
October 18, 1915; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of premises so conveyed to the Masonic Building association about one hundred
and eleven (111) feet to the Westerly line of land conveyed to James
J. Tracy by deed recorded in Volume
863, Page 347 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
James J. Tracy by deed recorded in
Volume 863, Page 347 of Cuyahoga
County Records about three hundred
and fifty (350) feet to the place of
beginning, be the same, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways;
approved
by
Greg
Description
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 318-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance designating Villa Angela-St. Joseph High
School as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate Villa AngelaSt. Joseph High School as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on December 10, 2009 to discuss
the proposed designation of Villa
Angela-St. Joseph High School as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended
designation
of
Villa
Angela-St. Joseph High School as a

794

May 8, 2013
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Villa Angela-St.
Joseph High School, whose street
addresses in the City of Cleveland
are 18491 Lake Shore Boulevard, N.
E., and 430 East 185th Street, Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Number is 114-13-001, and is
also known as the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Parcel “A” in the Consolidation and
Lot Split Plat of part of Original
Euclid Township Tract Number 15
of Township 8 North, Range 11
West, of the Connecticut Western
Reserve, as recorded in Volume 263
of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records, further described as follows:
All that portion of New Parcel “B”
in the lot split plat for the Diocese
of Cleveland and Most Reverend
Richard G. Lennon, Bishop as shown
in Volume 357 of Maps, Page 39 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and containing 9.841 acres, be the same
more or less, and subject to all legal
highways;
approved
by
Greg
Description
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 319-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Fine Arts Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Fine Arts
Building as a landmark; and

May 8, 2013
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on November 8, 2012 to discuss
the proposed designation of the Fine
Arts Building as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Fine
Arts Building as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Fine Arts
Building, whose street address in
the City of Cleveland is 3224-30
Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Numbers are 103-06-006 and 103-06-023 and
is also known as the following
described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Ten Acre Lot No. 64, bounded and described as follows:
1. Beginning on the Southerly line
of Euclid Avenue, at the Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 5 in John
Blair's Subdivision, as recorded in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue, 55 feet and 2 inches

The City Record
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to John J. Gallagher and
Jewel Gallagher by deed dated June
30, 1945, and recorded in Volume
5886, Page 416 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of land so conveyed to
John J. and Jewel Gallagher, 145
feet to the Southwesterly corner
thereof; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to John J. and Jewel Gallagher, 44
feet and 4 inches to the Westerly
line of land conveyed to John M.
Henderson by deed dated March 2,
1916, and recorded in Volume 1791,
Page
594
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of land so conveyed to
John M. Henderson, about 54 feet
and 6 inches to a point which is
equal distant between the Southerly
line of Euclid Avenue and the
Northerly line of Prospect Avenue,
S. E.; thence Westerly along said
equal distant line, 99 feet and 6
inches to its intersection with the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 5, about 199
feet and 6 inches to the place of
beginning, be the same, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways (Permanent Parcel Number:
103-06-006; Prior Reference Number:
Volume 14654, Page 609);
2. Beginning on the Southerly line
of Euclid Avenue at the Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to John
M. Henderson by deed dated March
2, 1916, and recorded in Volume 1791,
594
of
Cuyahoga
County
Page
Records; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 44

45
feet and 4 inches; thence Southerly
and parallel with the Westerly line
of land so conveyed to John M. Henderson 145 feet; thence Easterly and
parallel with the Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue 44 feet and 4 inches
to the Westerly line of land conveyed to John M. Henderson, as
aforesaid; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of land so conveyed to John M. Henderson, 145
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same, more or less, but subject
to all legal highways (Permanent
Parcel Number 103-06-023; Prior Reference
Number:
Volume
86-2007,
Page 55);
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 320-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of land located at Pershing and Interstate 77 to
General Industry, an ‘A’ Area District and a 3 Height District (Map Change No. 2405).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows;
Beginning in the centerline of Pershing Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Interstate 77;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Interstate 77 also known as Willow Freeway to its intersection with
the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Parcel A of a Plat of Consolidation prepared for The
Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation recorded in Volume 372, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records; Auditor’s File Number 201212260310;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line to a northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with a southwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly and northwesterly along said southwesterly line and continuing along its northwesterly
prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Independence Road;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Independence Road to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of a northeasterly line of the aforementioned Parcel A of a Plat of Consolidation prepared for The
Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation;
Thence southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation of said northeasterly line to its intersection with
a northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with a southwesterly line thereof;
Thence northwesterly and northerly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly, southerly, easterly, northerly and easterly again along said northerly line of the aforementioned Parcel A and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Interstate
77 also known as Willow Freeway;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Interstate 77 to its intersection with the centerline of Pershing Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’
Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2405, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

795

The City Record

46

May 8, 2013

Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 29, 2013

Ord. No. 359-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts
with the National Youth Sports Program to provide a youth summer
sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
National Youth Sports Program for
the public purpose of providing for
Cleveland youths with a summer
sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2013
at Case Western Reserve University.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$108,700 and shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 14 SF 039 and 01-7004-6380,
Request No. RQS 7004, RL 2013-19.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 363-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and maintaining the Cleveland Airport
System
Signage
Program,
Phase I, including related improvements, authorizing the Director of
Port Control to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Director to employ
one or more professional consultants
to design the improvement; and to
enter into various written standard
purchase and requirement contracts
needed
in
connection
with
the
improvement.

796

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing and maintaining the
Cleveland Airport System Signage
Program, Phase I, including related
improvements to efficiently guide
customers to their desired destinations in and around various properties, both on and off Cleveland Air(the
port
system
properties
“Improvement”), for the Department
of Port Control, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the

May 8, 2013
Improvement may be treated as a separate Improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract for a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the period of requirements to be
determined by the director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if necessary, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60
SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112,
60 SF 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF
117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60
SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141,
60 SF 160, and from the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant pro-

The City Record
ceeds accepted for the purposes of
this ordinance and any passenger
facility charges, if authorized for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 3001, RL
2013-26.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 432-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide construction
management and administrative services for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew, the second of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide construction management
and administrative services, including but not limited to, construction
administration, estimation, scheduling, testing, and document control,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew. The first of
the one-year options to renew may
be exercised by the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The second of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the second of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the third of
the one-year options to renew may
be exercisable at the option of the
Director of Port Control, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The contract or contracts authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be

797

47
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 114, 60
SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF 117, 60 SF 119,
60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60 SF 126, 60 SF
128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160, and
to the fund or funds which are credited the proceeds of any grant issued,
or passenger facility charges if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-32.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 433-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide professional
services necessary to provide drawings of the existing and proposed
Airfield
signage,
lighting,
and
marking plans, as required for certification
of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport by the Federal Aviation Administration, and to
update drawings as required, for a
period of one year with three oneyear options to renew, the second of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide drawings of the existing
and proposed Airfield signage, lighting, and marking plans, as required
for certification of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport by the
Federal
Aviation
Administration,
and to update drawings as required,
for a period of one year, with three
one-year options to renew. The first
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercised by the Director of
Port Control, without the necessity
of obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The second of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the second of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the third of
the one-year options to renew may
be exercisable at the option of the
Director of Port Control, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available

48
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 114, 60
SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF 117, 60 SF 119,
60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60 SF 126, 60 SF
128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160, and
to the fund or funds which are credited the proceeds of any grant issued,
or passenger facility charges if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-21.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 481-13.
By Council Members Conwell, Kelley and Mitchell (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 447.01 and 447.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
437-01, passed June 19, 2001 and
Ordinance No. 1237-12, passed October 15, 2012, relating to route map
and operations schedule for carriages.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 447.01 and
447.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 437-01, passed June
19, 2001 and Ordinance No. 1237-12,
passed October 15, 2012, is amended
to read as follows:
Section 447.01 Definitions
(a) “Carriage” means a horsedrawn or manually- or mechanicallydriven vehicle the owner or operator
of which secures or accepts passengers for hire on public streets or in
public or quasi-public places, including, but not limited to, horse-drawn
carriages, pedal- propelled carriages,
and pedicabs.
(b) “Carriage Operator” means the
person in actual physical control of a
carriage.
(c) “Carriage Operator’s Assistant”
means the person required by division
(b) of Section 447.08 to assist the Carriage Operator with those duties
which are ancillary to the operation
of the carriage.
(d) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses or his or her designee.

The City Record
(e) “Carriage Business” means the
business of transporting persons for
hire by carriage.
(f) “For hire” has the same meaning as defined in Section 401.30.
(g) “Police Traffic Commissioner”
means the Commissioner of Traffic
Control of the Division of Police.
Section 447.06 Route Map and Operations Schedule
(a) A carriage business shall operate only upon routes and under schedules which have been submitted to
and approved by the Director of Public Works and the Police Traffic Commissioner.
(b) The route map and operations
schedule shall be filed with the application for a carriage business license
and shall contain the following:
(1) A map of the tour routes on
which the business’ carriages will
operate;
(2) The location of any curbside
areas to be designated as zones for
pickup and discharge of passengers;
and
(3) With respect to horse-drawn
carriages, the location of the site or
sites to be used for off-street storage,
stabling, and loading of carriages
and horses.
(c) The Director of Public Works
and the Police Traffic Commissioner
may reject any route map and operations schedule, the implementation of
which would result in the unsafe use
of public rights of way or an unreasonable impediment to the orderly
flow of traffic.
(d) The licensee may file with the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses additional routes from time
to time, provided that they have first
been submitted to and approved by
the Director of Public Works and the
Police Traffic Commissioner.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit a licensee from
operating on special routes for special events, including without limitation weddings, dinner-and-theater
packages, concerts and other performances, provided that the routes have
first been submitted to and approved
by the Director of Public Works and
the Police Traffic Commissioner.
(f) Upon receipt of an application,
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses shall notify the Council
Member or Members in whose ward or
wards a carriage business intends to
operate for their written recommendation of approval. No license shall be
issued until the expiration of thirty
(30) days from the date of the notice,
unless the period of thirty (30) days is
expressly waived by the Council
members in writing.
Section 2. That existing Sections
447.01 and 447.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 437-01,
passed June 19, 2001 and Ordinance
No. 1237-12, passed October 15, 2012,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

798

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 491-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Brookwood
Capital
Partners,
Inc.,
or
its
designee, to provide for a ten-year,
sixty percent tax abatement for certain tangible real property improvements, as an incentive to construct
a new facility to be used as a medical supply warehouse and distribution center occupied by Owens &
Minor, Inc. and other potential firms
located at the southwest corner of
South Marginal Road and Marquette
Street in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated March 22,
2013, the City provided the Cleveland Metropolitan School District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by Section
5709.83 of the Revised Code. That
notice was provided to the CMSD not
later than fourteen days prior to
adoption of this ordinance; and
Whereas, by letter dated September 24, 2012, the City of Cleveland
provided the Village of Glenwillow
with a notice of Owens & Minor,
Inc.’s intent to relocate required by
Section 5709.69 of the Revised Code.
That notice was provided to the
municipality thirty days prior to the
first public hearing of this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area, which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains
the
characteristics
described in division (A) of Section
5709.61 of the Revised Code and certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or its designee (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to construct a new facility to be used as
a medical supply warehouse and distribution center occupied by Owens
& Minor, Inc. and other potential
firms located at the southwest corner of South Marginal Road and
Marquette Street in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be
at a competitive disadvantage operating at this location if taxes on certain tangible real property improvements were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or job opportunities will be lost;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the

May 8, 2013
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide
for a ten-year, sixty percent (60%)
tax abatement for certain tangible
real property improvements; the
abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall include the requirement that the new facility being constructed by Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or its designee, with certain
taxes abated under this ordinance,
shall have a minimum LEED certification of silver, and shall also be in
accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 491-13-A.
These terms shall not be amended,
nor shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferable to any entity,
without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code and the funds are appropriated
for the purposes listed in Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That any contract authorized by this legislation must require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts. The
identification process shall place special emphasis on the hard to employ,
including people who are disabled.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 492-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 69405 with Circadian
Knight Corp. d/b/a Top Gun to provide for the use and occupancy of
certain City-owned property located
in the passenger terminal building
at Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1324-10,
passed

The City Record
November 8, 2010, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. 69405 with Circadian Knight
Corp. d/b/a Top Gun for the use and
occupancy of certain City-owned
property located in the passenger
terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1324-10
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, for the use of the
Leased premises, Circadian Knight
Corp. d/b/a Top Gun shall pay the
City an annual fee as specified in
the contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69405 for an additional
year with Circadian Knight Corp.
d/b/a Top Gun for the use and occupancy of certain City-owned property located in the passenger terminal
building at Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1324-10 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 493-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of Airport Executives, Inc. to provide professional
technical and general training and
development content, activities, and
programs in support of employee
performance and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1404-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of Airport Executives, Inc. to
provide professional technical and
general training and development
content, activities, and programs in
support of employee performance
and professional development programs at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1404-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

799

49
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 for an additional year with American Association
of Airport Executives, Inc. for professional
technical
and
general
training and development content,
activities, and programs in support
of employee performance and professional development programs at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1404-07 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 494-13.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease certain space located on a portion of North Marginal Road and
known as Lot 9 to the Cleveland
Coordinating Committee for the Cod,
Inc. to provide parking for the USS
Cod Museum, for a term of six
months.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain space located on a portion of North Marginal Road and
known as Lot 9, which is not needed for public use; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Coordinating Committee for the Cod, Inc.
(“Lessee”) has proposed to lease the
property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port Control is authorized to lease to the
Lessee, certain space which is not
needed for public use more fully
described as the eastern portion of
Lot 9 on North Marginal Road.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed six months beginning May 1,
2013 and ending October 31, 2013.
Section 3. That the space authorized
by this ordinance shall be leased at a
rental of $375.00 per month, which is
determined to be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities.
Section 4. That the Lease shall provide that the Lessee, subject to the
approval of appropriate City officials,
may use the remaining portion of Lot
9 for additional parking up to six (6)
times during the term of the lease for

50
no additional cost. If the Lessee, subject to the approval of the appropriate
City officials, wishes to use the
remaining portion of Lot 9 for additional parking after they have used
their six (6) complimentary uses, a
fee of $200.00 per day shall be
charged.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 496-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley and Pruitt (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell the southeast
portion of City-owned Permanent
Parcel No. 104-02-002, located at the
southwest corner of South Marginal
Road and Marquette Street to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., or their
designee, for construction of a medical supply warehouse and distribution center; authorizing the lease of
the northeast portion of the parcel
to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.,
or their designee for a period up to
fifty years, with one option to renew
for an additional forty-nine year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities; and authorizing
one or more Option Agreements for
the sale and lease of the remaining
westerly portion of the parcel, for
future expansion of the project.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Permanent Parcel No. 104-02-002 and
is located at the southwest corner of
South Marginal Road and Marquette
Street, which is not needed for the
City’s use; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities requests the sale of the
southeast portion of the property
(“Part A”) to Brookwood Capital
Partners Inc., or their designee (the
“Developer”) and the lease of the
northeast portion of the property
(“Part B”) to Developer, for the purposes of developing a medical supply warehouse and distribution center for its client, Owens & Minor, a
supplier to University Hospitals; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities also requests authority to
enter into options to sell and lease
the two remaining westerly portions
(“Part C” and “Part D”) to Developer for future expansion; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for the
City’s use:
SE portion of PP 104-02-002
(approx. 5.56 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel A on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Developer
at a price not less than the appraised,
fair market value amount of $39,000
per acre, which is approximately
$216,840, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances as may be
placed by the City of Cleveland in the
deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to lease to Developer, certain property which is not needed for
the City’s use and is more fully
described as follows:
(NE portion of PP 104-02-002)
(approx. 2.8 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel B on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 5. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed fifty years with one option to
renew for an additional 49 years,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Section 6. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at a rental of $42,857 per acre,
multiplied by 4.4%, or $5,346 annually,
during the initial term of the lease. If
the option to renew is exercised, the
renewal rate will be based on the
then-current fair market value of the
parcel and the then-current BBBrated long-term interest rate.

800

May 8, 2013
Section 7. That the lease may authorize the Developer to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 8. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized above.
Section 10. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to enter
into an Option to Purchase Agreement for the sale of the following
described property which is not needed for the City’s use:
(SW portion of PP 104-02-002)
(approx. 3.3 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel C on a Lot Split Map recorded
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 11. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the property
described above under the option
agreement, at a price not less than the
appraised, fair market value amount
of $35,000 per acre, which is approximately $116,315, taking into account
all restrictions, reversionary interests and similar encumbrances as
may be placed by the City of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance
Section 12. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 13. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into an Option to
Lease Agreement for the lease of the
following described property which is
not needed for the City’s use:
(NW portion of PP 104-02-002)
(approx. 2.27 acres)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 162, 163 and
164, also being part of the lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 7606, Page
266 among the Deed Records of Cuyahoga County and further shown as
Parcel D on a Lot Split Map recorded

May 8, 2013
at Plat Volume 372 Page 66 among the
Cuyahoga County Plat Records.
Section 14. That the term of the
lease under the Option to Lease
Agreement shall not exceed fifty
years, and shall run coterminous with
the lease authorized in Section 4
above, with one option to renew for an
additional 49 years, exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 15. That the property leased
under the Option to Lease Agreement
shall be leased at a rental of $35,000
per acre, multiplied by 4.4%, or $3,502
annually, during the initial term of
the lease. If the option to renew is
exercised, the renewal rate will be
based on the then-current fair market
value of the parcel and the then-current BBB-rated long-term interest
rate.
Section 16. That the lease under the
Option to Lease Agreement may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate
City agencies and officials.
Section 17. That the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
under the Option to Lease Agreement
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 18. That the term of the
options to lease and sell described in
Sections 10 and 13 above shall be for a
period of no greater than two years.
Section 19. That the consideration
to be paid to the City for the options
described in Sections 10 and 13 above
shall be $13,720 per year.
Section 20. That the City will retain
one or more access easements over all
leased or sold portions of Permanent
Parcel No. 104-02-002 for the purpose
of installing and maintaining existing and future Cleveland Public
Power electric components.
Section 21. That the Option Agreement or Agreements shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 22. That Parcels C and D
(the Submerged Lands) are not necessary for the construction, maintenance, or operation by the municipal
corporation, county, or port authority
of
breakwaters,
piers,
docks,
wharves,
bulkheads,
connecting
ways, water terminal facilities, and
improvements, and marginal highways in aid of navigation and water
commerce and that the land uses specified in the application comply with
regulation of permissible land use
under a waterfront plan of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 23. That the proceeds from
the sale and lease, payment for consideration of the options, and the proceeds from the sale or lease of the
property if either options are exercised shall be deposited into Fund No.
58 SF 001.
Section 24. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

The City Record
Ord. No. 535-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to execute a release
of covenant and deed restrictions on
property located at 1708 Southpoint
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio and known
as the Hoover Pavilion in exchange
for an agreement from MetroHealth
to maintain and expand its commitment to mentally ill persons, and to
receive, treat and care for the mentally ill at two City-owned Health
Centers and on-site at its main campus and at other MetroHealth locations in the City of Cleveland; and
to authorize the Director of Public
Health to enter into leases with
MetroHealth to provide medical services at the Thomas McCafferty and
J. Glen Smith Health Centers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 555-06, passed February 25, 1946, the City executed and
delivered an Official Deed to the
State of Ohio transferring to the
State the premises located at 1708
Southpoint Drive, Cleveland, Ohio,
known as the Hoover Pavilion (the
“Hoover Pavilion Deed”); and
Pavilion
Whereas,
the
Hoover
contained
a
restrictive
Deed
covenant and reversionary clause
(deed restriction), stating that the
grantee (State of Ohio) “shall operate the premises for the reception,
treatment, and care of the mentally
ill,” and that the Hoover Pavilion
should revert back to the City of
Cleveland if the State fails to maintain such operations for the mentally ill. The deed was recorded in the
Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office
on February 19, 1962 in Volume
10350, Page 563 of the Cuyahoga
County Records (AFN# 00574744);
and
Whereas, until very recently, the
Northcoast Behavioral Psychiatric
Center building was operating on
the Hoover Pavilion property and
was used by the Northcoast Behavioral Health Center as a treatment
center for the mentally ill; and
Whereas, the State of Ohio intends
to transfer the Hoover Pavilion
property to The MetroHealth System
(“MetroHealth”); and
Whereas, MetroHealth intends to
demolish
the
former
Northcoast
Behavioral Psychiatric Center building as part of its plan to redevelop
the hospital campus which includes
the Hoover Pavilion property where
it will continue to provide medical
services including the treatment of
the mentally ill; and
Whereas, in order to redevelop the
hospital campus, MetroHealth has
requested that the City of Cleveland
remove the Deed Restriction; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has agreed to remove the Deed
Restriction in return for MetroHealth agreeing to:
1. enter into two, 15 (fifteen) year
Lease By Way of Concession agreements with the City of Cleveland to
provide medical services at the
Thomas McCafferty and J. Glen Smith
Health Centers, such on-site services
shall include without limitation:
Adult Medicine, Pediatric & Family
Practice Care, OB/GYN Services, Mental Health Services, Financial Counseling, Asthma Clinic, Cardiology,
WIC, Nutrition, Bilingual Services,
Social Work, Pride Clinic, Healthy

801

51
Start Applications and expanded
evening and weekend coverage;
2. maintain specialty care access
and financial counseling assistance,
as well as reduced wait times for specialty care appointments for patients
referred from the City’s Health Centers; and
3. enter into a binding agreement
with the City to maintain and expand
its commitment to mentally ill persons, and to receive, treat, and care
for the mentally ill at the City’s
Health Centers and on-site at its main
campus and at other MetroHealth
locations in the City of Cleveland, for
a period of at least fifteen (15) years
from the date the City of Cleveland
removes the Deed Restriction; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, prior to the
release of the Deed Restriction, the
Director of Public Health shall enter
into an agreement with MetroHealth
where MetroHealth agrees to (a)
enter into two, 15 (fifteen) year
Lease By Way of Concession agreements with the City of Cleveland to
provide medical services at the
Thomas McCafferty and J. Glen
Smith Health Centers, such on-site
services shall include without limitation: Adult Medicine, Pediatric &
Family Practice Care, OB/GYN Services,
Mental
Health
Services,
Financial Counseling, Asthma Clinic, Cardiology, WIC, Nutrition, Bilingual Services, Social Work, Pride
Clinic, Healthy Start Applications
and expanded evening and weekend
coverage; (b) maintain specialty
care access and financial counseling
assistance, as well as reduced wait
times for specialty care appointments for patients referred from the
City’s Health Centers; and (c) maintain and expand its commitment to
mentally ill persons, and to receive,
treat, and care for the mentally ill
at the City’s Health Centers and onsite at its main campus and at other
MetroHealth locations in the City of
Cleveland, for a period of at least
fifteen (15) years from the date the
City of Cleveland releases the Deed
Restriction.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and the Mayor shall execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland
a Release of Covenant and Deed
Restrictions for the property located
on 1708 Southpoint Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio, formerly known as the Hoover
Pavilion and more fully described as:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
73 and being known as part of the
City Hospital site, so-called, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the northerly line of
the East View Addition of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lots
Nos. 66 and 73, recorded in Volume 16,
Page 19, of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, at its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot No. 18 in said
East View Addition; thence in a direct
extension of said westerly line of
Sublot No. 18 North 262.37 feet to the
southerly line of an existing passageway or tunnel; thence South 76 ° 50’
00” East 415.12 feet; thence South 13°

52
10’ 00” West 172.35 feet to the northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 27 in said
East View addition 365 feet, more or
less, to the place of beginning.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Health is
authorized to lease by way of concession to MetroHealth, or its designee
(“Lessee”), certain property, which is
suitable for lease by another party for
public use, known as the Thomas
McCafferty Health Center located at
4242 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
444113 and J. Glen Smith Health Center located at 11100 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108.
Section 4. That the term of the leases authorized by this ordinance shall
be 15 years.
Section 5. That the Thomas McCafferty and J. Glen Smith Health Center
properties authorized by this ordinance shall be leased at no rent in
exchange for Lessee providing medical services as described in Section 1
to the citizens of Cleveland through
the use of a sliding scale for payment
based on the patient’s ability to pay,
and such other terms as are agreed to
by the Director of Public Health,
which is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 6. That the leases may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises
at no cost to the City subject to the
approval of appropriate City agencies
and officials.
Section 7. That the leases shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the leases
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 570-13.
By Council Members Zone, Miller,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland to the State of Ohio for the construction of a new grade separation
with Norfolk Southern and extension
of West 73rd Street to the West
Shoreway; authorizing the Director
of Capital Projects to enter into
agreements with the State of Ohio;
and causing payment to the State of
Ohio for the City’s share of the
improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 70409, passed June 8, 2009, this Council
authorized the City of Cleveland to
cooperate
with
the
Director
of
Transportation for the construction
of a new grade separation with Norfolk Southern and extension of West

The City Record
73rd Street to the West Shoreway
(the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by assuming and bearing one
hundred percent (100%) of the
entire cost of the Improvement, less
the amount of Federal-aid Earmark,
NOACA, and state funds set aside by
the Director of Transportation for
the financing of this Improvement
from funds allocated by the Federal Highway Administration, U.S.
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $3,678,444, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the
legislation
proposing
cooperation
and has caused to be made plans
and specifications and an estimate
of
costs
and
expense
for
the
Improvement and has transmitted
copies of the same to this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Director of
ODOT.
Section 4. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes such real property
and easements as are necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the Improvement.
Section 7. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 38020 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20
SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528,
20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, and 20 SF 546.
RQS 0103, RL 2013-47.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective April 29, 2013.

802

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 595-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 195.02 and 195.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
957-12, passed July 11, 2012, providing an exemption from the admission tax for small capacity live
entertainment venues.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 195.02 and
195.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No., and Section 195.03,
as amended by Ordinance No. 957-12,
passed July 11, 2012 are amended to
read as follows:
Section 195.02 Tax Levied
To provide funds for the purposes
of general municipal operations, procurement of fixed assets or permanent improvements including the payment of costs of acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
remodeling, renovating, enlarging,
improving, equipping or furnishing
facilities by contract, lease, lease-purchase, or otherwise, and including the
improvement of the municipal stadium by cooperative arrangements
with other political subdivisions or
nonprofit corporations, payment of
lease
rentals,
lease-purchase
amounts, debt charges or other obligations, the administration of deficits
in City funds and for all other lawful
purposes, there is hereby levied and
imposed upon every person who pays
an admission charge to any one place:
(a) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the amounts paid for admission to any
place, including admission by season
ticket or subscription. The tax shall
apply to every admission within the
City for which a charge is made,
notwithstanding that the sale of the
ticket or other evidence of right of
admission thereto is made outside of
the City;
(b) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the excess of the amounts paid for
tickets or cards of admission to theaters, operas and other places of
amusement, sold at newsstands, hotel
and places other than the ticket
offices of such theaters, operas or
other places of amusement, over and
above the amounts representing the
established price therefore at such
ticket offices, such tax to be returned
and paid in the manner provided in
Section 195.04 by the person selling
the ticket;
(c) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the amount paid for admission to any
public performance for profit at any
roof garden, cabaret or other similar
entertainment in case the charge for
admission is in the form of a service
charge, cover charge or other similar
charge;
(d) A tax of eight percent (8%) on
the amount paid as annual membership dues by every club or organization maintaining a golf course, and a
tax of eight percent (8%) on greens
fees paid to golf courses either under
club or private ownership;
(e) A tax of six percent (6%) on the
amount paid for admission to any
museum on land leased by the City
and subject to tax pursuant to division (b)(2) of Section 195.03.

May 8, 2013
(f) A tax of four percent (4%) on
the amount paid for admission to any
small capacity live entertainment
venue that has occupant load capacity of one hundred-fifty-one (151) people or more, but not greater than
seven hundred-fifty (750) people. For
purposes of this section, “small capacity live entertainment venue” is
defined as any separate room in a
premises where people pay admission
to attend a separate active performance by an individual or individuals
who, at the time of and during the performance, create live entertainment
for an audience through the use or
manipulation of voice, instruments,
or dance. If the same active performance is occurring for the benefit of
more than one separate room, then
those separate rooms shall be considered together as one venue.
Section 195.03 Exemptions from
Tax
(a) No tax shall be levied under this
chapter with respect to any admission
all the proceeds of which inure:
(1) Exclusively to the benefit of
religious, educational or charitable
institutions, societies or organizations; societies or organizations for
the prevention of cruelty to children
or animals or societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose
of maintaining symphony orchestras
and receiving substantial support
from voluntary contributions, or of
improving any municipal corporation,
or of maintaining a cooperative or
community center, moving picture
theater, or swimming pool, if no part
of the net earnings thereof inures to
the benefit of any private stockholder
or individual;
(2) Exclusively to the benefit of
persons in the military or naval forces
of the United States, or of National
Guard organizations, reserve officer
associations or posts or organizations
of war veterans or auxiliary units or
societies of any such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations,
units or societies are organized in the
State, and in no part of their net earnings inures to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual;
(3) Exclusively to the benefit of
members of the police or fire departments of any municipal corporation,
or the dependents or heirs of such
members;
(4) Exclusively to the benefit of the
general revenue fund of any municipal corporation or exclusively to the
benefit of any fund of any municipal
corporation under the control of a
recreation commission.
(5) Exclusively to a small capacity
live entertainment venue that has
occupant load capacity of less than or
equal to one hundred-fifty (150) people. For purposes of this section,
“small capacity live entertainment
venue” is defined as any separate
room in a premises where people pay
admission to attend a separate active
performance by an individual or individuals who, at the time of and during
the performance, create live entertainment for an audience through the
use or manipulation of voice, instruments, or dance. If the same active
performance is occurring for the benefit of more than one separate room,
then those separate rooms shall be
considered together as one venue.
(b) (1) The exemption from tax provided by this section shall, however,
not be allowed in case of admissions
to wrestling matches, prize fights or

The City Record
boxing, sparring or other pugilistic
matches or exhibitions, unless exclusively for the benefit of those organizations set forth in division (a)(2) of
this section, nor in the case of admissions to any athletic game or exhibition the proceeds of which inure wholly or partly to the benefit of any high
school, academy, preparatory or other
school or wholly or partly to the benefit of any college or university.
(2) The exemption from tax provided by division (a)(1) of this section
shall, however, not be allowed in case
of admissions to museums located on
land leased by the City pursuant to a
lease agreement entered into after
August 21, 1991.
(c) Immediately after the event for
which an exemption from admission
tax has been allowed, upon the
demand of the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, the treasurer of the institution, society or
organization for whose benefit such
event was held shall file an itemized
statement with the Commissioner setting forth the amount of money actually received by such treasurer
together with the expenses of promoting and conducting such event. Such
statement shall be used as a basis of
subsequent requests for exemption
from admissions tax for the benefit of
such institution, society or organization. If such statement shows a disproportionate expenditure for promoting and conducting such event, in
relation to the profits, if any, no such
exemption
shall
thereafter
be
allowed to such institution, society or
organization.
(d) The exemption from tax provided in this section shall not be allowed
to any institution, society or organization which does not control the sale
of admissions to the event for which
the exemption is requested, nor shall
any exemption be allowed where talent, services or other items are compensated for on a percentage basis if
such percentage results in a payment
in excess of the flat rate ordinarily
charged for the same talent, services
or other items.
(e) The limitation contained in this
section, upon the exemption from tax
in case of admissions to wrestling
matches, prize fights or boxing, sparring or other pugilistic matches or
exhibitions, shall not be deemed to
apply to any such matches or exhibitions in which all the contestants are
amateurs and the entire proceeds
thereof are devoted to a legitimate
charitable purpose, excepting therefrom the necessary expenses, which
shall in no event include payment to
any contestant other than his or her
necessary traveling expenses.
(f) Notwithstanding anything else
in this chapter to the contrary, no tax
shall be levied under this chapter
with respect to any admission to the
indoor arena facility (the “Gateway
Arena”) constructed by Gateway Economic Development Corporation of
Greater Cleveland (“Gateway”) pursuant to that certain Agreement
Relating to Ownership, Financing,
Construction and Operation of a
Sports Facility and Related Economic
Development Projects, dated as of
November 7, 1990, as amended by the
First Amendment as authorized by
Ordinance No. 325-92 (the “ThreeParty Agreement”), between the City,
Gateway, and the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio (the “County”), provided,
however, that the exemption provided
by this division (f) shall apply and be

803

53
effective only as long as there are outstanding any Arena Bonds to which
reference is made in the Cooperative
Agreement between the City and
County authorized by Ordinance No.
327-92 (the “Cooperative Agreement”)
(such
Bonds
being
hereinafter
referred to as the “Arena Bonds”) and
only if and as long as the following
conditions are met and shall have
been certified to be met by the Director of Law to the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses:
(1) Gateway shall pay or shall
cause the lessees or operators of the
Gateway Arena to pay to the Trustee
(the “Trustee”) for the holders of the
Arena Bonds amounts equal to the
taxes that would have been levied
under Section 195.02 but for the
exemption provided by this division
(f) at the times and in the manner
that such taxes would have been
payable under this chapter. In computing the amount payable pursuant
to this division (f)(1), the admission
charges for admissions to the Arena
shall be deemed to be net of the
amount payable pursuant to this division (f)(1).
(2) The County shall, in its trust
agreement or a related agreement
with the Trustee, require the Trustee:
A. To retain each Bond Year as
defined in the Cooperative Agreement
from the amounts paid to the Trustee
pursuant to division (f)(1) of this section to secure payments with respect
to the Arena Bonds as provided in the
Cooperative Agreement, an amount
up to the sum of: (a) three percent
(3%) of all admissions charges for
admissions to the Gateway Arena during the related Collection Year as provided in the Cooperative Agreement
for: basketball games played by the
Cleveland Cavaliers at the Gateway
Arena during each basketball season
(including divisional, conference and
championship play-off games); preseason or exhibition basketball
games played by said Cavaliers at the
Gateway Arena and the NBA All-Star
Game and any other event held at the
Gateway Arena in which professional
basketball players participate (collectively, “Games”), plus (b) in the
event that the City increases the
taxes payable under this chapter
from six percent (6%) to a higher
rate, the percentage equal to such
increase times all admissions charges
for all admissions during such Collection Year to the Gateway Arena for
Games, and plus (c) in the event that
the City increases the taxes payable
under this chapter from six percent
(6%) to a higher rate, the percentage
equal to such increase times all
admissions charges for all admissions during such Collection Year to
the Gateway Arena for any events
other than Games;
B. To release and pay to the City at
the end of each Bond Year any of such
amount described in division (f)(2)A.
above not used or needed for such purpose during such Bond Year, together
with any investment income earned
thereon; and
C. To pay any such amounts in
excess of the amount described in
division (f)(2)A. above directly to the
City at the end of each Bond Year,
together with any investment income
earned thereon.
(3) Gateway shall prepare and submit to the Director of Finance of the
City and the Clerk of City Council, or
cause the preparation and submission
to the Director of Finance of the City

54
and the Clerk of City Council, such
returns and reports regarding the
amounts paid to the Trustee pursuant
to division (f)(1) of this section as the
Directors of Law and Finance shall
reasonably require to demonstrate
Gateway’s compliance with this section.
(4) Gateway shall agree to repay or
cause to be repaid to the City from
Gateway’s future excess revenues
any moneys paid to the Trustee pursuant to division (f)(2)A. of this section actually applied to the payments
with respect to the Arena Bonds with
interest and on such other terms and
in such form as are consistent with
Gateway’s obligations under the trust
indentures and related agreements
securing Gateway’s bonds and the
Arena Bonds and as the City’s Director of Finance and Director of Law
deem acceptable in the interests of
the City.
(5) Gateway shall make or cause to
be made such other assurances and
commitments as the City’s Director of
Finance and Director of Law deem
necessary, and appropriate to protect
the City’s entitlements under this
division (f) and provide copies of
such other assurances and commitments to the Clerk of the Council.
(g) (1) Except as otherwise provided in division (b), and notwithstanding anything else in this chapter to
the contrary, no tax shall be levied
under this chapter with respect to any
admission to live theater, live opera,
live ballet, or live exhibition of dance,
musical performance, or monologue
productions which are sponsored by
an institution, society or organization
that has received a determination
from the Internal Revenue Service
that the organization is exempt from
federal income tax under section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended; provided
that the institution, society or organization actively participates in planning and conducting the event, is
responsible for the safety and success
of the event, is organized for the purpose of sponsoring live theater, live
opera, live ballet, or live exhibition of
dance, musical performance, or monologue productions and has among the
stated purposes in its charter the promotion of arts education in the communities which it serves, and will
receive at least twenty percent (20%)
of the net profits, if any, of the events
which the institution, society or organization sponsors and will bear the
risk of at least twenty percent (20%)
of the losses, if any, from the events
which the institution, society or organization sponsors.
(2) The exemption from tax provided in this subsection shall not be
allowed to any institution, society or
organization which does not control
the sale of admissions to the event for
which the exemption is requested.
(3) Immediately after an event for
which an exemption from admission
tax has been allowed pursuant to this
subsection (g), the treasurer of the
institution, society or organization
shall file an itemized statement with
the Commissioner setting forth the
amount of money actually received by
such treasurer together with the
expenses of promoting and conducting such event. Such statement shall
be used as a basis of subsequent
requests for exemption from admissions tax in accordance with this subsection. If such statement demonstrates a failure to qualify in accor-

The City Record
dance with paragraph (1) of this subsection (g), no such exemption shall
thereafter be allowed to such institution, society or organization.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 596-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland to the State of Ohio for the
improvement of the Broadway/Ackley/Union intersection; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into agreements; and causing
payment to the State of Ohio for the
City’s share of the improvement.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1206-11, passed October 31, 2011, this
Council authorized the City of Cleveland to cooperate with the Director
of Transportation for the improvement
of
the
Broadway/Ackley/Union intersection (the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by assuming and bearing one
hundred percent (100%) of the
entire cost of the Improvement, less
the amount of Federal Highway
Administration and United States
Department of Transportation funds
set aside by the Director of Transportation for the financing of this
Improvement; and
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $96,898, but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the
legislation
proposing
cooperation
and has caused to be made plans
and specifications and an estimate
of
costs
and
expense
for
the
Improvement and has transmitted
copies of the same to this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes such real property
and easements as are necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.

804

May 8, 2013
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Director of
ODOT.
Section 6. That this Council is
authorized to cause payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546, 52 SF 001, and 54 SF 001. (RQS
0103, RL 2013-78)
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective April 29, 2013.

Ord. No. 630-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to enter into an
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Development Corporation for the
AsiaTown Cultural Center Planning
Project through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into an agreement
with St. Clair Superior Development
Corporation for the AsiaTown Cultural Center Planning Project for
the public purpose of creating a
Asian community & cultural center
in the city of Cleveland to promote
cultural diversity through the use of
Ward
8
Neighborhood
Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

May 8, 2013
Ord. No. 631-13.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th & Scovill near East Tech and East 39th &
Community College Avenue, northeast side, for the period from May
29, 2013 to June 29, 2013, inclusive,
publicizing the 8th Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Capital Projects is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development to stretch banners at
East 55th & Scovill near East Tech
and East 39th & Community College
Avenue, northeast side, for the period from May 29, 2013 to June 29,
2013, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 632-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 25th Annual Walk for
Hunger, on May 11, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 25th Annual Walk
for Hunger, on May 11, 2013, start:
Burke Lakefront Airport – proceeds
west-bound on North Marginal –
south-bound on East 9th St – westbound on St. Clair – south-bound on
West 3rd – east-bound on W. West
Superior – south-bound on West 2nd
– east-bound on Euclid Ave – southbound on Ontario Ave – east-bound
on Prospect Ave – south-bound on

The City Record
East 4th St – east-bound on Huron
– south-bound on East 2nd – eastbound on Huron – north-bound on
East 9th St – east-bound on Huron
– west-bound on Euclid – northbound on East 12th – west-bound on
Lakeside – north-bound on East 9th
– ending at Voinovich Park; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 634-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Dow, J. Johnson, Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, Half Marathon, 10K,
and 5K, on May 19, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 2013 RiteAid
Cleveland Marathon, Half Marathon,
10K, and 5K, sponsored by Cleveland Marathon, Inc., on May 19, 2013
Section 2. The 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon and Half Marathon
courses start on West 3rd Street at the
corner of FirstEnergy (Cleveland
Browns) Stadium, just north of west
parking lot entrance (south side of
crosswalk); then south on West 3rd
Street to West Lakeside Avenue; then
turn right on West Lakeside Avenue
and merge onto Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway entrance ramp (top of
ramp); then enter Cleveland Memorial Shoreway, going westbound to
Edgewater Drive exit; then turn right
on Edgewater Drive exit, go west on
Edgewater Drive to West 110th
Street; then turn left on West 110th
Street and go south to Lake Avenue;
then turn left on Lake Avenue and go
east to West 85th Street; then turn
right on West 85th street and go south
to Detroit Avenue; then turn left on
Detroit Avenue and go east to West
74th Street; then turn right on West
74th Street and go south to Franklin
Boulevard; then turn left on Franklin
Boulevard and go east to West 44th
Street; then turn right on West 44th
Street and go south to Lorain Avenue;
then turn left on Lorain Avenue and

805

55
go east to West 25th Street; then turn
right on West 25th Street and go south
to Barber Avenue; then turn left on
Barber Avenue and go east to Scranton Road; then turn left on Scranton
Road and go north to Starkweather
Avenue; then turn right on Starkweather Avenue and go east to West
11th Street; then turn left on West
11th Street and go north to Abbey
Avenue; then turn left on Abbey
Avenue and go west to West 20th
Street; then turn right on West 20th
Street and go north to Lorain Avenue;
turn
right
on
Lorain
Avenue/Carnegie Avenue (in eastbound lanes, with traffic) and go east
to Ontario Street; then turn left on
Ontario Street (in southbound lanes,
against traffic) to W. Huron Street;
then turn left (30 degrees) on W.
Huron Street and go west to West 6th
Street; then turn right on West 6th
Street and go north to W. Prospect
Avenue; then turn left on W. Prospect
Avenue (becomes West 6th Street)
and go north to W. St. Clair Avenue;
then turn right on W. St. Clair Avenue
and go east to East 9th Street. At this
point the courses of the Marathon and
Half Marathon split. The Half
Marathon course continues; turn left
on East 9th Street (center lanes) and
go north to Erieside Street; then turn
left on Erieside Street (center lanes)
and go north to the center of driveway
at the Great Lakes Science Center
The
(Half
Marathon
Finish).
Marathon course continues; turn right
on East 9th Street and go north to E.
Superior Avenue; then turn left on E.
Superior Avenue and go east to East
13th Street; then turn right on East
13th Street and go south to Euclid
Avenue; then turn left on Euclid
Avenue and go east to East 18th
Street; then turn left on East 18th
Street and go north to Chester
Avenue; then turn right on Chester
Avenue (in westbound lanes, against
traffic) and go east to East 36th
Street; then turn left on East 36th
Street and go north to Payne Avenue;
then turn right on Payne Avenue and
go east to East 36th Street; then turn
left on East 36th Street and go north
to St. Clair Avenue, N.E.; then turn
right on St. Clair Avenue, N.E., and go
east to East 40th Street; then turn
right on East 40th Street and go south
to Chester Avenue; then turn left on
Chester Avenue (in westbound lanes,
against traffic) and go east to Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive; then turn left
on Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and
go north to North Marginal Road; then
turn left on North Marginal Road and
go west to East 72nd Street; then turn
left on East 72nd Street and go south
to St. Clair Avenue, E.; then turn left
on St. Clair Avenue, E., and go east to
the turnaround just west of East 73rd
Street (180 degree turn); complete the
180 degree turn on St. Clair Avenue,
E., and go west to East 9th Street; turn
right on East 9th Street (northbound
lanes, with traffic) and go north to
Erieside Street; then turn left on
Erieside Street (center lanes) and go
west to the center of driveway at the
Great
Lakes
Science
Center
(Marathon Finish).
Section 3. The 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon 10K course starts on
West 3rd Street at the corner of
FirstEnergy Stadium, just north of
west parking lot entrance (south side
of crosswalk); then south on West 3rd
Street to W. St. Clair Avenue; then
turn right on W. St. Clair Avenue
(westbound lanes with traffic) and

The City Record

56
go west to West 6th Street; then turn
left on West 6th Street (westbound
lanes with traffic) and go south the
W. Superior Avenue; then turn right
on W. Superior Avenue (becomes
Detroit Avenue) and go west to West
67th Street; then turn right on West
67th Street and go north to Father
Caruso Drive; then turn right on
Father Caruso Drive and go east to
West 65th Street; then turn right on
West 65th Street and go south the Herman Avenue; then turn left on Herman Avenue and go east to West 49th
Street; then turn right on West 49th
Street and go south to Tillman
Avenue; then turn left on Tillman
Avenue and go east to Cleveland
Memorial
Shoreway
(eastbound)
entrance; then turn slight right on
Cleveland Memorial Shoreway and go
east to W. Lakeside Avenue exit; then
turn slight right on W. Lakeside
Avenue exit and go east on W. Lakeside Avenue (becomes Lakeside
Avenue, E.) to East 9th Street; turn
left on East 9th Street (northbound
lanes, against traffic) and go north to
Erieside Street; then turn left on
Erieside Street (in eastbound lanes,
against traffic) and go west to the
driveway at the Great Lakes Science
Center (10K Finish).
Section 4. The 2013 Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon 5K course starts on
West 3rd Street at the southwest corner of FirstEnergy Stadium, just
north of Al Lerner Way; then south on
West 3rd Street to W. Superior
Avenue; then turn right on W. Superior Avenue and go west to West 6th
Street; then turn left (45 degrees) on
West 6th Street and go south to W.
Huron Road; then turn left on West
Huron Road (becomes Huron Road,
E.) and go east to Prospect Street;
then turn right on Prospect Street and
go east to Huron Road, E.; then turn
left on Huron Road, E. (becomes East
13th Street) and go north to E. St.
Clair Avenue; then turn left on E. St.

Clair Avenue and go west to East 9th
Street; then turn right on East 9th
Street and go north to Erieside
Avenue; then turn left on Erieside
Avenue and go west to Al Lerner
Way; then turn right on Erieside
Avenue and go north and west to the
tunnel at the northwest corner of
FirstEnergy Stadium; then turn left
into the tunnel at northwest corner of
FirstEnergy Stadium and onto the
field in the west end zone (5K Finish).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 29, 2013.
Effective May 1, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, May 6, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee: Present:
Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson, Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland.
Authorized Absence:
Sweeney.

May 8, 2013
Zone.
Westbrook,
Authorized
Absence: Sweeney, Vice Chair.
Tuesday, May 7, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cimperman, Cummins,
J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Dow, Vice Chair.
1:30 p.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Mitchell. Authorized Absence: Westbrook.
Wednesday, May 8, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee:
Present:
Keane,
Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell.
12:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Dow,
Kelley,
Miller,
Authorized
Polensek,
Westbrook.
Absence: Conwell, Cummins.
Thursday, May 9, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Cleveland,
Dow,
Mitchell, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Cummins, Miller.

2:00 p.m.
11:00 a.m.
Finance Committee:Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt,

Public Service
CELLED.

Committee:

CAN-

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Bed Bug Assistance Program — professional service — contracts (O 673-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 767
Economic Security Project For Cleveland Seniors Program, 2013-14 — National Council On
Aging — Grant (O 568-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Agreements
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 373-13 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School of Music And Arts
(Ward(s) 12, 3 and 5 NEF) (O 681-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Sect(s) 3 and 7 of Ord. No. 663-10 — Lake Ave. and West 76th St. Pedestrian
Tunnels (O 680-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Asiatown Cultural Center Planning Project — Promote Asian Community & Cultural Center —
City Planning Commission — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward 08 NCF)
(O 630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative (CIRI) Administrative Expense — Economic
Development Assistance — Wire-Net (O 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health And Human Services Community Fair — Mt. Pleasant Community Zone (Ward 2 NCF)
(O 693-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

806

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

May 8, 2013

The City Record

57

AIDS
AIDS — Related Services — HOPWA Grant — various agencies — Grant — Health Department
(O 661-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762

Appropriations
Low Interest Loan And Grant Program — Expend CDBG And Federal Home Funds — Contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 659-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761

Assessment Equalization Board
Appoint Assessment Board for Clifton Blvd. (From West 115th to Lake Ave.) (Ward 18)
(R 682-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings And Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — Approve Report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779

Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave., and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
Capital Projects (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805

Board of Control — Administrative Services Division
Inspection services (HOME/Uniform Relocation Act (URA) Program Property Standards,
Decent, Safe and Sanitary Dwelling) - per Ord. 638-11 to Graddic Company - Dept. of
Community Development (BOC Res. 206-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
Estabrook Recreation Center parking lot improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to Nerone & Sons,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 202-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Estabrook Recreation Center roof improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to Industrial Energy
Systems, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects and Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 199-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Groton Park site improvements — per Ord. 607-10 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 205-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Roof improvements at Estabrook Recreation Center — per Ord. 533-12 to Industrial Energy
Systems, Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 199-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Woodland Avenue rehabilitation (East 53rd St. to East 86th St.) and
Buckeye Road rehabilitation (Woodland Ave. to Ambler St.) — per Ord. 591-11, 733-12
to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction
(BOC Res. 198-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Addison Road (Ward 7) — PPN 106-04-091 — Pearlie Jones (BOC Res. 213-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arlington Avenue, 12513 (Ward 10) — PPN 110-14-054 — Douglas Edward Samuel (BOC Res. 218-13)
East 118th Street, 1463 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-10-077 — Clara A. Everett (BOC Res. 212-13). . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 4115 (Ward 1) — PPN 142-05-067 — Lula Mayfield (BOC Res. 215-13). . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 84th Street, 2428 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-03-052 — Vera Brewer (BOC Res. 210-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Grove Avenue, 12313 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-028 — Leora VanDyke (BOC Res. 219-13) . . . . . .
Glenville Avenue, 10558 (Ward 8) — PPN 108-13-148 — Edward L. Leavy (BOC Res. 214-13) . . . . . . . .
Inspection services (HOME/Uniform Relocation Act (URA) Program Property Standards,
Decent, Safe and Sanitary Dwelling) — per Ord. 638-11 to Graddic Company — Division
of Administrative Services (BOC Res. 206-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rookwood Road, 17724 (Ward 10) — PPN 117-23-001 — Helen E. Minniefield (BOC Res. 216-13) . . . . .
Schaefer Avenue, 6527 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-25-092 — Jason Phillips (BOC Res. 217-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Svec Avenue, 13821 (Ward 4) — PPN 137-19-117 — Jerry Eades and Rosa Eades (BOC Res. 211-13) . .
West 61st Street, 3160 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-08-087 — lease — Maggie’s Farm, LLC
(BOC Res. 207-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3478 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-15-139 — lease — NxGen Preserve (BOC Res. 208-13) . . .
Woodland Avenue, 1892 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-33-021 — John E. Allen and Rosetta Allen
(BOC Res. 209-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

784
785
784
784
783
785
784

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

782
785
785
783

. . . . . . . . . . . 782
. . . . . . . . . . . 783
. . . . . . . . . . . 783

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Mental Health Reception on May 4 — All
Star Valet Service per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 200-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Annual Benefit
on May 11 — NOW Valet Company per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 201-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

807

The City Record

58

May 8, 2013

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Woodland Avenue rehabilitation (East 53rd St. to East 86th St.) and
Buckeye Road rehabilitation (Woodland Ave. to Ambler St.) — per Ord. 591-11, 733-12
to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 198-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in March 2013 — per BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 195-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Addison Road (Ward 7) — PPN 106-04-091 — Pearlie Jones (BOC Res. 213-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arlington Avenue, 12513 (Ward 10) — PPN 110-14-054 — Douglas Edward Samuel
(BOC Res. 218-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1463 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-10-077 — Clara A. Everett (BOC Res. 212-13). . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 4115 (Ward 1) — PPN 142-05-067 — Lula Mayfield (BOC Res. 215-13). . . . . . . . . . .
East 84th Street, 2428 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-03-052 — Vera Brewer (BOC Res. 210-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Grove Avenue, 12313 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-028 — Leora VanDyke (BOC Res. 219-13) . . . .
Glenville Avenue, 10558 (Ward 8) — PPN 108-13-148 — Edward L. Leavy (BOC Res. 214-13) . . . . . .
Rookwood Road, 17724 (Ward 10) — PPN 117-23-001 — Helen E. Minniefield (BOC Res. 216-13) . . .
Schaefer Avenue, 6527 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-25-092 — Jason Phillips (BOC Res. 217-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Svec Avenue, 13821 (Ward 4) — PPN 137-19-117 — Jerry Eades and Rosa Eades (BOC Res. 211-13)
West 61st Street, 3160 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-08-087 — lease — Maggie’s Farm, LLC
(BOC Res. 207-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3478 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-15-139 — lease — NxGen Preserve (BOC Res. 208-13) .
Woodland Avenue, 1892 (Ward 9) — PPN 120-33-021 — John E. Allen and Rosetta Allen
(BOC Res. 209-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 784
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

785
784
784
783
785
784
785
785
783

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 783

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Lubricants — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Frank Blackmon — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 204-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Lubricants — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 203-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Inspection services (HOME/Uniform Relocation Act (URA) Program Property Standards,
Decent, Safe and Sanitary Dwelling) — per Ord. 638-11 to Graddic Company — Division
of Administrative Services, Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 206-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Estabrook Recreation Center parking lot improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to Nerone & Sons,
Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 202-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Estabrook Recreation Center roof improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to Industrial Energy
Systems, Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Office of
Capital Projects and Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 199-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groton Park site improvements — per Ord. 607-10 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Division
of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 205-13) . . . . . . .
Water facilities rehabilitation (secondary sites — water towers, tanks) — per Ord. 810-08
to D & M Painting Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Avenue rehabilitation (East 53rd St. to East 86th St.) and
Buckeye Road rehabilitation (Woodland Ave. to Ambler St.) — per Ord. 591-11, 733-12
to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office
of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 198-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Sodium hypochlorite solution — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Water facilities rehabilitation (secondary sites — water towers, tanks) — per Ord. 810-08
to D & M Painting Corporation — Division of Water (BOC Res. 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Estabrook Recreation Center parking lot improvements — per Ord. 534-12 to Nerone & Sons,
Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 202-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Estabrook Recreation Center roof improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to Industrial Energy
Systems, Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Office of
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 199-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Groton Park site improvements — per Ord. 607-10 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. — Division
of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 205-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782

808

May 8, 2013

The City Record

Lubricants — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Frank Blackmon — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (BOC Res. 204-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lubricants — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 203-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Mental Health Reception on May 4 — All
Star Valet Service per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 200-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Annual Benefit
on May 11 — NOW Valet Company per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 201-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

59
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in March 2013 — per BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 195-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Lubricants — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Frank Blackmon — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 204-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Lubricants — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 203-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Sodium hypochlorite solution — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Board of Control — Water Division
Sodium hypochlorite solution — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Water facilities rehabilitation (secondary sites — water towers, tanks) — per Ord. 810-08
to D & M Painting Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Valet parking service — Mental Health Reception on May 4 — All Star Valet Service
per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 200-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Valet parking service — Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Annual Benefit on May 11 — NOW
Valet Company per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 201-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bessemer Avenue, 8200, (Ward 5) – Sidacko Bessemer I, LLC, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 5/6/13 (Cal. 13-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Road, 1662, (Ward 7) – City of Cleveland, owner, and Jameel Rahkeera,
prospective tenant — appeal dismissed on 5/6/13 (Cal. 13-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 8902, a.k.a. 1381 West 91st Street, (Ward 16) – Algart Realty Company,
owner — appeal heard on 5/6/13 (Cal. 13-58) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 3682, (Ward 4) – Wilson Fisher, Jr., owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 5/6/13 (Cal. 13-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th Street, 2277, (PPN 104-24-063), (Ward 5) – Farid Elabed and Fatima Lange,
owners — appeal withdrawn on 5/6/13 (Cal. 12-234). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2256, (PPN 103-24-080), (Ward 5) – Elabed, LLC, owner —
appeal withdrawn on 5/6/13 (Cal. 12-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2256, (PPN 103-24-081), (Ward 5) – Elabed, LLC, owner —
appeal withdrawn on 5/6/13 (Cal. 12-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2276, (PPN 103-24-084), (Ward 5) – Fatima Lange, owner — appeal
withdrawn on 5/6/13 (Cal. 12-237). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eliot Avenue, 10515, (Ward 6) – Marcella Truett, owner — appeal heard on 5/6/13
(Cal. 13-59) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Avenue, 806, (Ward 4) – Sandy Banks, LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/6/13 (Cal. 13-47). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rugby Road, 13406, (Ward 10) – Sharon Richardson, owner — appeal remanded to the City of
Cleveland Parking Violations Bureau, Photo Safety and Waste Collection on
5/6/13 (Cal. 13-60). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucson Avenue, 6100, (Ward 12) – Truscon Realty, LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 5/6/13 (Cal. 13-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 82nd Street, 3199, (Ward 16) – Fakhari Mhmoud, owner — appeal heard on 5/6/13
(Cal. 13-57) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 55th Street, 2280, (Ward 5) – Elabed, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
5/20/13 (Cal. 13-66). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Euclid Avenue, 11607, (Ward 9) – Maximum Independence Living, owner — appeal to be heard
on 5/20/13 (Cal. 13-73) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Herman Avenue, 5400, (Ward 15) – Argentina Rocco, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/20/13
(Cal. 13-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786

809

The City Record

60

May 8, 2013

Kenilworth Avenue, 1002, (Ward 3) – John Meigs, owner — appeal to be heard on
5/20/13 (Cal. 13-63). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Sedalia Avenue, 17604, (Ward 19) – Khalil Rasheed, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/20/13
(Cal. 13-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
West 14th Street, 2676, (Ward 3) – Walter Holtkamp, owner, and Sean Kelly and Andrea
Thornton, prospective tenants — appeal to be heard on 5/20/13 (Cal. 13-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786

Building And Housing Department
Contracts for Demolition using Court Settlements (O 670-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 766

Burke Lakefront Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top
Lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — Lease — USS COD (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Gun —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799

Capital Projects
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., (From Buckingham
To Cedar Ave.) (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Sect(s) 3 and 7 of Ord. No. 663-10 — Lake Ave. and West 76th St. Pedestrian
Tunnels (O 680-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
American Lung Association Annual Walk — permit — May 18th — American Lung Association
(Ward 03) (O 706-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appoint Assessment Board for Clifton Blvd. (From West 115th to Lake Ave.) (Ward 18)
(R 682-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State Of Ohio (Ward 12) (O 596-13) . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
banners (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 10)
(R 251-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 249-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Escape On The Lake Run — permit — July 13th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 11)
(O 709-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward
03) (R 370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Kidney Walk — permit — June 9th — National Kidney Foundation (Ward
03) (O 707-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) reconstruction — public improvement contract
(Ward 18) (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement contracts (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and Acquire Easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. LTD., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. and East 151 St. — Approve Report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — permit — May 11th — Hunger Network Of Greater Cleveland
(O 632-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State of Ohio (Ward 15)
(O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Winking Lizard Shot In The Dark Walk/Run — permit — July 20th — Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc. (Ward 03) (O 708-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 768
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 774
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Case Western Reserve University
CWRU Partnership Program — Grant — Case Western Reserve University — Health
Department (O 655-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 759
Summer Sports, Nutrition, Health, And Life Skills Development Programs — National Youth
Sports Program (O 359-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

City Council
Summer Meeting Schedule, 2013 (R 710-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779

810

May 8, 2013

The City Record

61

City of Cleveland Bids
Catch basin debris disposal — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.29 — bid due May 31, 2013 (advertised
5/8/2013 and 5/15/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diesel Fuel — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per
C.O. Sec. 131.65 — bid due May 29, 2013 (advertised 5/8/2013 and 5/15/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
High Voltage switching equipment — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due June 5, 2013 (advertised 5/8/2013
and 5/15/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance for First Energy Stadium — Department of Public Works — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due May 22, 2013 (advertised 5/1/2013 and 5/8/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Test equipment, repair and training (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1183-10 — bid due June 5, 2013 (advertised 5/8/2013
and 5/15/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utility pole testing and replacement (deteriorating copper naphthenate-treated) Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec.
129.26 — bid due June 7, 2013 (advertised 5/8/2013 and 5/15/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788

City Planning Commission
Asiatown Cultural Center Planning Project — Promote Asian Community & Cultural Center —
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward 08 NCF) (O 630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 10) (R 251-13) . .
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts (Ward 15) (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District (Ward
11) (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 07) (O 249-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District (Ward 18) (O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest Corner) — Change Use And Height Districts (Ward 15)
(O 133-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(R 370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 505-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts
(Ward 07) (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark (Ward 08)
(O 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts
(Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 12) (O 320-13).
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District (Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794

Civil Service Commission
Professional Services — Develop, Administer and Grade Examinations for Police and Fire
Exams (O 672-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 767

Clerk of Council
Summer Meeting Schedule, 2013 (R 710-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning And Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
Signage, Airfield — professional services — Federal Aviation Administration (O 433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 797

Cleveland Housing Network
Discount Affordability Program Administration — Utilities Department — Water
Division (O 566-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

811

The City Record

62

May 8, 2013

Cleveland Municipal Court
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract Agreement changes for The Veterans Court —
Treatment Program (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792

Cleveland Public Power
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section 413.031 — Red Light Cameras — Contract with Xerox State & Local Solutions,
Inc., to install and maintain Automated Traffic Cameras (O 650-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
Amend Sections 195.02 and 195.03 — Exempt Small Live Entertainment Venues from Admission
Tax (O 595-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map AND Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 798

Communications
Michael Cox, Director Of Department of Parks, Recreation And Properties — Grant — Vivian
Ruth Barnes-Major Family Foundation Fund — The Cleveland Foundation (F 697-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Community Development
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 373-13 — Fine Arts Program — agreement — Broadway School Of
Music And Arts (Ward(s) 12, 3 and 5 NEF) (O 681-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health And Human Services Community Fair — agreement — Mt. Pleasant Community Zone
(Ward 2 NCF) (O 693-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2013 — Grants — Ohio Development Services Agency
(ODSA) (O 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation, New Housing Construction And Commercial Redevelopment Programs —
Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 658-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Program — Expend CDBG and Federal Home Funds — Contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 659-13). . . . . . . . . .
Storefront Renovation And Commercial Revitalization Program — Rebate And Grant
/ Loan Agreements — Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 660-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 760
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761

Community Development Block Grant Program
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation, New Housing Construction and Commercial Redevelopment Programs —
Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 658-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan And Grant Program — Expend CDBG and Federal Home Funds — Contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 659-13) . . . . . . . . .
Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Program — Rebate and Grant
/ Loan Agreements — Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 660-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . 760
. . . . . . . . . . . . 761
. . . . . . . . . . . . 761

Community Relations Board
Juvenile Community Diversion Program, 2013 — Grant — Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court
(O 488-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779

Condolences
Banks, Hurai Mcghee (R 714-13) . . .
Johnson, Annie B. (R 715-13) . . . . . .
Johnson, Beatrice (Bea) (R 713-13).
Johnson, Sr., Ellis (R 723-13) . . . . . .
Walker, Gilbert Ronald (R 712-13) .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

753
753
753
753
753

Corporate College (A Division of Cuyahoga Community College) (R 720-13)
Flowers, Sandra Lee (R 717-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health Services — 25th Anniversary (R 721-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smith, Alma (R 719-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The O’JAYS — 50th Anniversary (R 718-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Third Federal Savings And Loan — 75th Anniversary (R 722-13). . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

753
753
753
753
753
753
753

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations

812

May 8, 2013

The City Record

63

Contracts
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract Agreement changes for the Veterans Court —
Treatment Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 817-12 — Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255
with Inland Waters of Ohio — Aircraft Deicing Fluid Management Services
(O 695-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 413.031 — Red Light Cameras — Xerox State & Local Solutions, Inc., to install
and maintain Automated Traffic Cameras (O 650-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Section 1 of Ord. No. 956-11 — Roof and Roof System Repair and Replacement —
various divisions (O 676-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bed Bug Assistance Program — professional service — Aging Department (O 673-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State Of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 12)
(O 596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building and Housing Department — For Demolition using Court Settlements (O 670-13) . . . . . . . . .
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I, — public improvement — professional
services — CHIA (O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
Lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel Selection
International, Inc. (O 691-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 — Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. —
Surveying Services (O 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 — Associates, Inc. — Surveying Services
(O 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center For Families and Children
(O 696-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning And Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
Puresafety (O 689-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with Oshkosh Corporation (O 690-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing, Gate Operators, Gates, Barriers, Walls, Guardrails and associated appurtenances —
various facilities — Utilities Department (O 567-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation dba Greater Cleveland Film Commission —
Assist In Operations (O 668-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department —
Health Department (O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation, New Housing Construction and Commercial Redevelopment Programs —
Cleveland Action To Support Housing (CASH) (O 658-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — professional services — Provide Construction Management and Administrative
Services — various divisions (O 432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Shelley Company for pavement repairs — Runway 6L/24 R (O 703-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — ARCONAS Corporation — Wire areas with USB Ports and Charging Outlets
(O 702-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — professional services — Safety Equipment and Support Services (O 700-13) . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) Reconstruction — public improvement — Capital
Projects (Ward 18) (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement — Capital Projects (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Grant — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . .
Summer Sports, Nutrition, Health, And Life Skills Development Programs — National Youth
Sports Program — Case Western Reserve University (O 359-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — Grant Agreement — Economic Development
(O 669-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — test maintain, fuel & repair fueled backup electrical systems &
back up computer system (O 675-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional services — public improvement — Security and Network
Security Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State of Ohio — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . 792

. . . . . . . . . . . . 772
. . . . . . . . . . . . 756
. . . . . . . . . . . . 769
. . . . . . . . . . . . 767
. . . . . . . . . . . . 804
. . . . . . . . . . . . 766

. . . . . . . . . . . . 780
. . . . . . . . . . . . 796
. . . . . . . . . . . . 799
. . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . 772

. . . . . . . . . . . . 799
. . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . 780
. . . . . . . . . . . . 766
. . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . 760
. . . . . . . . . . . . 797
. . . . . . . . . . . . 774
. . . . . . . . . . . . 773
. . . . . . . . . . . . 773
. . . . . . . . . . . . 768
. . . . . . . . . . . . 774
. . . . . . . . . . . . 779
. . . . . . . . . . . . 796
. . . . . . . . . . . . 766
. . . . . . . . . . . . 768
. . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . 802

Cuyahoga County
Adoption of The Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan — Safety Department
(R 679-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Juvenile Community Diversion Program, 2013 — Grant — Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court —
Community Relations (O 488-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Grant — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779

813

The City Record

64

May 8, 2013

Easements
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer
Project — NEORSD — Public Works (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 763
Sell Property and Acquire easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. LTD., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769

Economic Development Department
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative (CIRI) Administrative Expense — Economic
Development Assistance — Wire-Net (O 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flat East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan —
Amend Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats Phase 1 Projects — TIF Amendment — Flats Phase II Projects (O 678-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation dba Greater Cleveland Film Commission —
Assist In Operations (O 668-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — Grant Agreement (O 669-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 766
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 766

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Economic Development Department (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 798

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract Agreement changes for The Veterans Court —
Treatment Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 792

Flats District
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats Phase 1 Projects — TIF Amendment — Flats Phase II Projects (O 678-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 770

Gifts
Accept funds from Cory Methodist Church to assist with boiler replacement at the church
(O 647-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754

Grants
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AIDS — Related Services — HOPWA Grant — various agencies — Health Department (O 661-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division —
Health Department — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 654-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1449-11 & 1248-12 — Contract agreement changes for The Veterans Court —
Treatment Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative (CIRI) Administrative Expense — Economic
Development Assistance — Wire-Net (O 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CWRU Partnership Program — Case Western Reserve University — Health Department (O 655-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Security Project for Cleveland Seniors Program, 2013-14 — National Council On
Aging — Aging Department (O 568-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation dba Greater Cleveland Film Commission —
Assist In Operations (O 668-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2013 — Ohio Development Services Agency (ODSA)
(O 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Juvenile Community Diversion Program, 2013 — Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court —
Community Relations (O 488-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Michael Cox, Director Of Department Of Parks, Recreation And Properties —
Vivian Ruth Barnes-Major Family Foundation Fund — The Cleveland Foundation
(F 697-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program — Cuyahoga County Board Of Health —
Health Department (O 656-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Cuyahoga County — Safety Department (O 489-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety Department — West 3rd St., 1350 — Lease Space — Family Justice Center (O 671-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Economic Development (O 669-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Ohio Department Of Health — Medicaid Program Payments — Health
Department (O 657-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

814

755
755
761
758
792
762
759
780
766
765
779

753
759
779
767
766
760

May 8, 2013

The City Record

65

Health Department
AIDS — Related Services — HOPWA Grant — various agencies — Grant (O 661-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division — Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 654-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CWRU Partnership Program — Grant — Case Western Reserve University (O 655-13). . . . . . . . . .
HIV / AIDS Prevention Programs — various agencies — Community Development Department
(O 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program — Grant — Cuyahoga County Board Of
Health (O 656-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Grants- Ohio Department of Health — Medicaid Program Payments —
Health Department (O 657-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 759
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 759
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 760

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 O 651-13)

Housing Court
Building and Housing Department — Contracts for Demolition using Court Settlements (O 670-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . 766

Landmark Commission
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 316-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 319-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 505-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 196-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 506-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 794

Lease Agreement
Port Control — Parker Hannifin (O 704-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 774
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 800

Lease By Way Of Concession
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801

Leases
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top
Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — USS COD — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Docks 28b, 30, and 32 — Cleveland Browns — Surface Parking and
Staging Special Events (O 701-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety Department — West 3rd St., 1350 — Space — Family Justice Center (O 671-13)

Gun —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 773
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 767

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 7763-71 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1090-12 (Ward 12)
(R 685-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 3226 — objection to issuance (Ward 14) (R 621-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to issuance (Ward 15) (R 683-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corlett Ave., 12401 — objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 633-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131St., 4127 — liquor agency contract (Ward 02) (R 694-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1081-12 (Ward 12)
(R 684-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Main Ave., 950 — transfer of license application (Ward 03) (F 699-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 13411 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1094-12 (Ward 01) (R 686-13) .

815

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

778
789
777
789
779

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 778

The City Record

66

Rocky River Dr., 4142 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
(Ward 19) (R 687-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3400 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 08) (R 622-13) . . .
West 10th St., 1121 — new application (Ward 03) (F 698-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

May 8, 2013
676-12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Loans
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758

Mayor’s Office
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 373-13 — Fine Arts Program — agreement — Broadway School of
Music And Arts (Ward(s) 12, 3 and 5 NEF) (O 681-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD)
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — easement — Dugway West Interceptor
Relief Sewer Project — Public Works (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 763

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 12)
(O 596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State Of Ohio — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division —
Health Department (O 654-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Concession Stand At Maplewood Park — name change — “Martin J. Sweeney Concession Stand”
(O 711-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
Michael Cox, Director Of Department of Parks, Recreation And Properties — Grant — Vivian
Ruth Barnes-Major Family Foundation Fund — The Cleveland Foundation (F 697-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Permits
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13).
American Lung Association Annual Walk — May 18th — American Lung Association (Ward 03)
(O 706-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
Banners — Capital Projects (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Escape On The Lake Run — July 13th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 11) (O 709-13) . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Kidney Walk — June 9th — National Kidney Foundation (Ward 03) (O 707-13). . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon , Inc. (Ward(s) 03, 07,
08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — May 11th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland (O 632-13). .
Winking Lizard Shot In The Dark Walk/Run — July 20th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 708-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Police Division
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 798

Port Control Department
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 817-12 — Exercise option to renew Contract No. Ps 2010-255
with Inland Waters of Ohio — Aircraft Deicing Fluid Management Services
(O 695-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 772
Amend Title & Section 1 of Ord. No. 956-11 — Roof and Roof System repair and replacement —
various divisions (O 676-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I, — public improvement contract —
professional services — CHIA (O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796

816

May 8, 2013

The City Record

67

Contract — Shelley Company for pavement repairs — Runway 6L/24 R (O 703-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — ARCONAS Corporation — Wire areas with USB Ports and Charging Outlets (O 702-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69405 with Circadian Knight Corp. D/B/A Top Gun —
Lease — Office Space (O 492-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel Selection
International, Inc. (O 691-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 — Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. —
Surveying Services (O 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 — Associates, Inc. — Surveying Services
(O 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center For Families And Children
(O 696-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise Option To Renew Contract No. Ps 2011-60 With American Association Of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning and Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
Puresafety (O 689-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with Oshkosh Corporation (O 690-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease Agreement — Parker Hannifin (O 704-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease Docks 28b, 30, and 32 — Cleveland Browns — Surface Parking and Staging Special Events
(O 701-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Lot 9 — Lease — USS COD — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — contracts — Provide Construction Management AND Administrative
Services — various divisions (O 432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — Safety Equipment and Support Services (O 700-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Signage, Airfield — professional services — CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration (O 433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 774
. . 773
. . 799
. . 771
. . 762
. . 762
. . 772

. . 799
. . 771
. . 771
. . 774
. . 773
. . 799
. . 797
. . 773
. . 797

Professional Services
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 817-12 — Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2010-255
with Inland Waters of Ohio — Aircraft Deicing Fluid Management Services
(O 695-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bed Bug Assistance Program — contracts — Aging Department (O 673-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Civil Service Commission — Develop, Administer and Grade Examinations for Police and Fire
Exams (O 672-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I, — public improvement contract — CHIA
(O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount Affordability Program Administration — Utilities Department — Water
Division (O 566-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-140 with Evaluation Personnel Selection
International, Inc. (O 691-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-228 — Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. —
Surveying Services (O 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-232 — Associates, Inc. — Surveying Services
(O 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-268 with The Center For Families And Children
(O 696-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-60 with American Association of
Airport Executives, Inc. — Learning And Development of Employees Services
(O 493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-89 with Pureworks, Inc., dba
Puresafety (O 689-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. PS 2011-96 with Oshkosh Corporation (O 690-13) . . . . . . . .
Port Control — contracts — Provide Construction Management and Administrative Services —
various divisions (O 432-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Safety Equipment and Support Services (O 700-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Signage, Airfield — CHIA — Federal Aviation Administration (O 433-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional services — public improvement contracts — Security
and Network Security Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 772
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 767
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 767
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 772

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 797
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 773
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 797
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771

Public Improvements
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West 117th
St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Section 1 of Ord. No. 956-11 — Roof and Roof System Repair And Replacement —
various divisions (O 676-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Airport System Signage Program, Phase I, — public improvement contract —
professional services — CHIA (O 363-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) Reconstruction — public improvement contract —
Capital Projects (Ward 18) (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

817

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 796
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 768

The City Record

68

May 8, 2013

Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement contracts — Capital Projects (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 774
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings And Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — Approve Report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
Utilities Department — professional services — public improvement contracts — Security
And Network Security Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771

Public Works
Accept funds from Cory Methodist Church to assist with boiler replacement at the church
(O 647-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 447.01 and 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule for Carriages (O 481-13).
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — EASEMENT — Dugway West Interceptor
Relief Sewer Project — NEORSD (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Sports, Nutrition, Health, And Life Skills Development Programs — National Youth
Sports Program — Case Western Reserve University (O 359-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles and apparatus, various types (O 646-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 754
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 763
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 796
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 754

Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell Property and acquire easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. Ltd., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St., to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 800

Races
American Lung Association Annual Walk — permit — May 18th — American Lung Association
(Ward 03) (O 706-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Escape On The Lake Run — permit — July 13th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 11)
(O 709-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Kidney Walk — permit — June 9th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 707-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — permit — May 11th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 632-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Winking Lizard Shot In The Dark Walk/Run — permit — July 20th — Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc. (Ward 03) (O 708-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Resolution of Support
Adoption Of The Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan — Safety Department
(R 679-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790

Safety Department
Adoption Of The Countywide All Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan (R 679-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 413.031 — Red Light Cameras — Contract with Xerox State & Local Solutions,
Inc., to install and maintain Automated Traffic Cameras (O 650-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Civil Service Commission — professional services — Develop, Administer and
Grade Examinations for Police and Fire Exams (O 672-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe and Sound PREA Project — Grant — Cuyahoga County (O 489-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles and apparatus, various types (O 646-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 1350 — Lease Space — Family Justice Center (O 671-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 756
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

767
779
754
767

Sewers
Forest Hills Park and Martin Luther King Jr. Park — easement — Dugway West Interceptor
Relief Sewer Project — NEORSD — Public Works (Ward 09) (O 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 763

Sidewalks
Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets — public
improvement contracts — Capital Projects (O 705-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 774

Sidewalks Division
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings and Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — Approve Report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779

818

May 8, 2013

The City Record

69

Stadium
Port Control — Lease Docks 28b, 30, and 32 — Cleveland Browns — Surface Parking and
Staging Special Events (O 701-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 773

State Of Ohio
Amend Title & Sect(s) 3 And 7 of Ord. No. 663-10 — Lake Ave. and West 76th St. Pedestrian
Tunnels (O 680-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects (Ward 12)
(O 596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayor to execute a release of Deed Restrictions on Hoover Pavilion and Lease with Metro
Health (O 535-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State Of Ohio — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802

Street Vacation
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (Ward 10) (R 251-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (Ward 07)
(O 249-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 370-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788

Tax Abatement
Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Economic Development
Department (O 491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 798

Taxes
Amend Sections 195.02 and 195.03 — Exempt Small Live Entertainment Venues from Admission
Tax (O 595-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802

Utilities Department
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal (O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discount Affordability Program Administration — Water Division (O 566-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing, Gate Operators, Gates, Barriers, Walls, Guardrails and associated appurtenances —
contracts — various facilities (O 567-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional Services — public improvement contracts — Security And Network Security
Systems (O 692-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property on S. Marginal Rd., and Marquette St. to Brookwood Capital Partners, Inc.
and Owens & Minor (O 496-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Test Maintain, Fuel & Repair Fueled Backup Electrical Systems & Back Up Computer System
(O 675-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 768

Vehicles
Vehicles and apparatus, various types (O 646-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754

Ward 01
Johnson, Beatrice (Bea) — Condolence (R 713-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 13411 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1094-12 (Ward 01) (R 686-13) .
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings And Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. And East 151 St. — Approve Report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walker, Gilbert Ronald — Condolence (R 712-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 02
Banks, Hurai Mcghee — Condolence (R 714-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corlett Ave., 12401 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (Ward 02) (R 633-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st., 4127 — liquor agency contract — liquor permit (Ward 02) (R 694-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health And Human Services Community Fair — agreement — Mt. Pleasant Community Zone
(Ward 2 NCF) (O 693-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 03
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 373-13 — Fine Arts Program — agreement — Broadway School Of
Music And Arts (Ward(S) 12, 3 And 5 NEF) (O 681-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

819

The City Record

70

May 8, 2013

American Lung Association Annual Walk — permit — May 18th — American Lung Association
(Ward 03) (O 706-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flat East Development LLC — Economic Development Assistance — HUD 108 Loan — Amend
Section 4 of Ord. No. 1383-09 (O 651-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flats East Development LLC — Core City — Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1892-05 (O 653-13) . . . . .
Flats East Development, LLC — Economic Development Assistance — Amend Section 2 of Ord.
No. 1740-08 (VPI) (O 652-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gould Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 370-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Main Ave., 950 — transfer of license application — liquor permit (Ward 03) (F 699-13) . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health Services — 25th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 721-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Kidney Walk — permit — June 9th — National Kidney Foundation (Ward
03) (O 707-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property and acquire easement for 1885 West 25th St. to 1889 West 25th St. Ltd., —
Pedestrian Access (O 677-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk For Hunger, 25th Annual — permit — May 11th — Hunger Network Of Greater Cleveland
(O 632-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th St., 1121 — new application — liquor permit (Ward 03) (F 698-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Winking Lizard Shot In The Dark Walk/Run — permit — July 20th — Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc. (Ward 03) (O 708-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776

Ward 04
Flowers, Sandra Lee — Congratulations (R 717-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 05
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. & Scovill Ave. and East 39th
St. & Community College Ave. — May 29th to June 29th — Ward 5 Family Festival —
banners — Capital Projects (O 631-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 373-13 — Fine Arts Program — Agreement — Broadway School Of
Music And Arts (Ward(s) 12, 3 And 5 NEF) (O 681-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 06
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction Of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. (From Buckingham
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smith, Alma — Congratulations (R 719-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The O’JAYS — 50th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 718-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

755
753
753
753

Ward 07
East 66th Pl. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (O 249-13). . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Annie B. — Condolence (R 715-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 08
Asiatown Cultural Center Planning Project — Promote Asian Community & Cultural Center —
City Planning Commission — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward 08 NCF)
(O 630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Groh Mansion — Superior Ave., 3043 — PPN 102-18-038 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 505-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jonell Centre — Superior Ave., 10518 — PPN 120-01-003 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 196-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morison Avenue Missionary Baptist Church — Morison Ave., 10606 — PPN 109-14-103 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 197-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — Permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3400 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 622-13) . . . . . . . . . .

820

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 789

May 8, 2013

The City Record

71

Stockbridge Apartment Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3328 — PPN 103-07-015 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 506-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 09
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
to Cedar Ave.) — Capital Projects (O 649-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gender-Neutral Language In Laws (R 635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The O’JAYS — 50th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 718-13) . . . . . . . .

(From Buckingham
...................
...................
...................
...................

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

755
790
753
753

Ward 10
Carnation Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (R 251-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 11
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (O 512-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Sr., Ellis — Condolence (R 723-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Escape On The Lake Run — permit — July 13th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 709-13) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777

Ward 12
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 373-13 — Fine Arts Program — agreement — Broadway School Of
Music and Arts (Ward(S) 12, 3 And 5 NEF) (O 681-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave., 7763-71 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1090-12 —
liquor permit (R 685-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway/Ackley/Union Intersection — consent — State Of Ohio — Capital Projects (O 596-13)
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1081-12 — liquor permit
(R 684-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 320-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Third Federal Savings And Loan — 75th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 722-13) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 13
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 3226 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 621-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 15
Amend Title & Sect(s) 3 and 7 of Ord. No. 663-10 — Lake Ave. and West 76th St. Pedestrian
Tunnels (O 680-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1559-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 683-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 133-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street extension to the West Shoreway — consent — State Of Ohio — Capital
Projects (O 570-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802

Ward 16
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 25-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon, 2013 — permit — May 19th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (Ward(s)
03, 07, 08, 15, 16) (O 634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805

821

The City Record

72

May 8, 2013

Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Castings And Landscaping — West 105 St., West 106th
St., West 114th St. and East 151 St. — Approve Report (O 490-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 17
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. To West
117th St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 18
Accept Issue 1 Grant for reconstruction of Lorain Ave. (From West 150th St. to West
117th St.) — Capital Projects (O 648-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate College (A Division of Cuyahoga Community College) — Congratulations (R 720-13) .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 572-13) . . .
Puritas Ave. (From SR 237 to West 130th St.) Reconstruction — public improvement contract —
Capital Projects (O 674-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 768
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Ward 19
Concession Stand at Maplewood Park — name change — “Martin J. Sweeney Concession Stand”
(O 711-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 676-12 —
liquor permit (Ward 19) (R 687-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
Szabo, Fred — Congratulations (R 716-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753

Water Division
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Discount Affordability Program Administration — Utilities Department (O 566-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Water Pollution Control Division
Chemicals, Hazardous Waste Products and Non — Hazardous and Recyclable Waste Materials —
Analysis, Identification, Storage, Recycling, Disposal — Utilities Department
(O 495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780

Weatherization Program
Home Weatherization Assistance Program, 2013 — Grants — Ohio Development Services
Agency (ODSA) (O 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 765

Zoning
Clark Ave. and W. 65th St. (Intersection) and Storer Ave. (Between W. 63rd St. & W. 67
Pl.) — Change Use Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1559-12). . . . . . . . .
E. 156 St. and Calcutta Ave. — Establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairlawn Ave. at W. 146th St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 18)
(O 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd. and Bailey Ave. (Southwest corner) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 133-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (Between West Blvd. and W. 94th St.) — Change Use and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 25-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 320-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1805 — Change Use District — Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 12) (O 825-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

822

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787

