The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Sixth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

31

Board of Control

31

Civil Service

35

Board of Zoning Appeals

35

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
36
Public Notice

39

Public Hearings

39

City of Cleveland Bids

39

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

41

Committee Meetings

46

Index

46

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Acting Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5178

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013
The City Record

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Mitchell, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Zone.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Reed.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 4, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Brian J. Cummins, TJ Dow, Jeffrey
D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson,
Martin J. Keane, Kevin J. Kelley,
Eugene R. Miller, Mamie J. Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Zack Reed,
Martin J. Sweeney, Jay Westbrook,
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of
Government
Affairs
Valarie
J.
McCall, Chief of Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief of Communications Maureen Harper, Chief
of Sustainability Jenita McGowan,
Chief
of
Public
Affairs
Natoya
Walker-Minor, and Directors Langhenry,
Dumas,
Withers,
Wasik,
Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Nichols,
Griffin, Brown, Fumich and Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Carl Salters, Solemans Temple Church of God in Christ, Cleveland, Ohio, located in Ward 2.
Pledge of Allegiance.

311

File No. 308-13.
RE: #1545008 — D5 Transfer of
Location Application (Safekeeping)
– Cleveland Chop LLC, 824 West St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 309-13.
RE:
#69615160035
—
D5J
D6
Transfer of Ownership Application
— Playhouse Square Foundation,
d.b.a. Playhouse Square, 1415 Euclid
Avenue. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 310-13.
RE: #9170796 — C2 C2X Stock
Ownership Change Application —
Urban Connection of Cleveland Inc.,
10301-05 St. Clair Avenue. (Ward 8).
Received.
File No. 311-13.
RE: #0991650 — C1 New License
Application — Brothers Group Inc.,
d.b.a. Brothers Pizza, 4149 Rocky
River Drive. (Ward 19). Received.
File No. 328-13.
RE: #42204200025 — D1 D2 D3
D3A D6 Transfer of Ownership
Application — Jacobs Investment
Management Co. Inc., d.b.a. Nautica
Pavilion, Bars 1 and 2, 2000 and 2014
Sycamore Street and patios. (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 329-13.
RE: #11643550011 — C2 C2X D6
Transfer of Location Application —
C E A M Investment Corp., d.b.a.
Constantinos Market, 1278 West 9th
Street. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 330-13.
RE: #5902350 — D1 D2 D6 Transfer
of
Location
Application
—
Michalis Inc., d.b.a. Constantinos
Market at Uptown, 11473 Euclid
Avenue. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 331-13.
RE: #8697225 — C1 New License
Application
—
Sunshine
Burrito
Bowl LLC, d.b.a. Burrito Bowl Food
and Beverage, 3226 Clark Avenue.
(Ward 14). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

The City Record

4
Res. No. 333-13 — Arentha Ann
King.
Res. No. 334-13—Mary Louise Mills
Toles.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 335-13—Ronnie M. Owens.
Res. No. 336-13—Elder Dr. Larry D.
Tatum.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 337-13 — National Women
and
Girls
HIV/AIDS
Awareness
Day.
COMMENDATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 338-13—Andrew Sheehan
& Ian Roberts.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 312-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the refunding and remarketing
of outstanding Core City Fund Program Bonds and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, under authority of the
Constitution and laws of the state
of Ohio and the Charter of the City,
this Council has by ordinance authorized the issuance of revenue bonds,
from time to time, for the City’s
Core City Fund Program for economic and community development
projects in the City; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance of
Bonds by the City for the purpose
of refunding Outstanding Bonds of
the Core City Fund Program or,
alternatively in the case of Outstanding Bonds bearing interest at
variable rates, to authorize the
interest rate mode conversion or
change in Credit Support Instrument
and remarketing of such Outstanding Bonds, in either case to obtain
debt service savings, or to stabilize
interest rates or minimize risks of
increased interest expense on Outstanding Bonds that bear interest at
variable rates, or to eliminate or
modify covenants that are unduly
restrictive, or to obtain a more
favorable debt service structure, all
as defined and provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health or safety in that authorizing
the refunding and other actions
with respect to Outstanding Bonds
is necessary to enable the City to
respond to market conditions on a
timely basis to achieve the abovedescribed benefits for the City;
now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Trust Indenture or elsewhere in
this Ordinance, including its preambles, unless the context or use clearly indicates another or different
meaning or intent:
“Bonds” means the Series 2004
Bonds, the Series 2008 Bonds, and
any Additional Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time,
under the Trust Indenture, including
any Refunding Bonds issued under
this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificates authorized by Section 4,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Refunding Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity for
the Bonds.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 13.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 12.
“Net Project Revenues” means Revenues, if any, remaining and available to pay debt charges on the
Bonds after the application by the
City of the Revenues to make grants
or loans for additional economic
development projects in the City.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the City which are not moneys raised by taxation, to the extent
available for the purpose of paying
debt charges on the Bonds, including, but not limited to, the following: (a) grants from the United
States of America and the State; (b)
payments in lieu of taxes now or
hereafter
authorized
by
State
statute; (c) fines and forfeitures
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (d) fees deposited in
the City’s General Fund for services
provided and from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings
on
the
City’s
General
Fund; (f) investment earnings on
other funds of the City that are
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (h) gifts and donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
underwriter(s) or other purchaser(s) of the Refunding Bonds selected by the Director of Finance as
provided in Section 4.
“Outstanding Bonds” means Bonds
issued and outstanding, from time to
time, under the Trust Indenture,
including without limitation any
Refunding Bonds issued pursuant to
this Ordinance. On the date of introduction of this Ordinance, the Outstanding Bonds consisted of the
Series 2004 Bonds and the Series
2008 Bonds.

312

March 6, 2013
“Proceedings” means, collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Trust Indenture, and
such other proceedings of the City
that provide collectively for, among
other things, the rights of holders
and beneficial owners of the Refunding Bonds.
“Program Funds” means Fund
Nos. 10 SF 541, 10 SF 542, 10 SF 545,
10 SF 546, and 10 SF 550 through 10
SF 553, both inclusive.
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Bonds identified in a
Certificate of Award to be refunded
from proceeds of Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding
Bonds”
means
the
Refunding Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
“Remarketing Agent” means a
financial institution performing the
duties of a remarketing agent under
a Supplemental Indenture for variable rate Bonds.
“Revenues” means the rentals, revenues, payments, repayments, income, charges, and moneys derived
or to be derived from the use, lease,
sublease, rental, sale, including installment sale or conditional sale, or
other disposition of individual Projects, or derived or to be derived
from a loan made for a Project.
“Series 2004 Bonds” means the
City’s Taxable Economic and ComDevelopment
Revenue
munity
Bonds, Series 2004 (Core City Fund)
issued on November 10, 2004 under
the terms and security of the Trust
Indenture, as supplemented by the
First Supplemental Trust Indenture
dated as of November 1, 2004, in the
principal
amount
of
original
$19,280,000 and now outstanding in
the principal amount of $13,595,000.
“Series 2008 Bonds” means the
City’s Taxable Economic and Community
Development
Refunding
Revenue Bonds, Series 2008 (Core
City Fund) issued on July 24, 2008
under the terms and security of the
Trust Indenture, as supplemented by
the
Second
Supplemental
Trust
Indenture dated as of July 1, 2008,
in the original principal amount of
$28,160,000 and now outstanding in
the principal amount of $25,360,000.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
an agreement between the City and
the Trustee supplemental to the
Trust Indenture.
“Trustee” means the trustee under
the Trust Indenture, initially U.S.
Bank National Association.
“Trust Indenture” means the Trust
Indenture dated as of December 15,
2003, as amended by Section 1.1(b)
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of July 1, 2008
and by the Third Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of January
1, 2010, each between the City and
the Trustee, and as it may be further supplemented and amended
from time to time as authorized
herein.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
finds and determines that it is necessary and proper and in the best
interests of the City to authorize the
issuance of Refunding Bonds as
Additional Bonds under the Trust
Indenture for the purpose of refund-

March 6, 2013
ing one or more series of Outstanding Bonds, or designated portions
thereof, to obtain aggregate net present value debt service savings of
at least three percent (3%), or to
eliminate or modify covenants that
are unduly restrictive, or to obtain
a more favorable debt service structure or more favorable terms under
Credit Support Instruments. With
respect to Outstanding Bonds that
are short-term or variable-rate obligations, this Council authorizes the
City to issue Refunding Bonds to
refund such Outstanding Bonds, or
designated portions thereof, for any
of the foregoing purposes or for the
purpose that the Director of Finance
has determined, based on the written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that such Outstanding Bonds are
subjecting the City to undesirably
high rates of interest or undesirable
fluctuations in rates of interest or
risks or expenses associated with
Credit
Support
Instruments
or
Hedge Agreements that can economically be avoided or mitigated
through refunding. The principal
amount of each series of Refunding
Bonds is to be the amount set forth
in the Certificate of Award authorized in Section 4 and shall be the
amount determined by the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary (i) to refund the Refunded Bonds, (ii) to fund any interest
on the Refunding Bonds, (iii) to
fund any deposit to a reserve fund,
(iv) to pay costs of any Credit Support Instruments, and (v) to pay
costs of issuing the Refunding
Bonds and refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale
of the Refunding Bonds shall be
deposited and applied as provided in
the Supplemental Indenture for the
Refunding Bonds and for the purposes stated in this Ordinance, and
those proceeds are appropriated for
those purposes.
Separate
series
of
Refunding
Bonds may be issued at the same or
different
times.
The
Refunding
Bonds of each series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award. A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental
Indenture
may
be
delivered for each series. The proceeds from the sale of each series
of Refunding Bonds shall be allocated, deposited and applied as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture. The Refunding Bonds
shall constitute Bonds for all purposes of the Trust Indenture.
Section 3. Terms of Refunding
Bonds. The Refunding Bonds shall
contain the terms provided in or
determined pursuant to, the Trust
Indenture,
this
Ordinance,
the
applicable Certificate of Award and
the applicable Supplemental Indenture. Each series of Refunding
Bonds may be secured by a separate
Supplemental Indenture, or a single
Supplemental Indenture may secure
more than one series of Refunding
Bonds.
(a) General. The Refunding Bonds
may be issued as obligations bearing interest at fixed or variable
interest rates. In the event that the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best

The City Record
interests will be served by a series
of Refunding Bonds bearing interest
at variable interest rates, then provision shall be made in the Supplemental Indenture applicable to that
series for the method and procedure
by which the variable rate of interest to be borne by the Refunding
Bonds of that series shall be determined (whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise); provided that
no series of variable rate Refunding
Bonds shall bear interest at a rate
in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year (including any
Refunding Bonds held by a provider
of a Credit Support Instrument). The
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of a variable rate
series of Refunding Bonds may or
may not permit the holders to tender their variable rate Refunding
Bonds for purchase by the City. If
the Director of Finance designates
any series of Refunding Bonds as
variable rate Refunding Bonds, and
if the Holders of that series of
Refunding Bonds are to be entitled
to tender those Refunding Bonds for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate for
those variable rate Refunding Bonds
(and may designate others, from
time to time, in substitution therefor), the tender agent or agents
(which may be the Trustee) and the
remarketing agent or agents (which
may be any of the Original Purchasers), which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the parties so designated
possess the requisite resources and
experience to provide the services
required of them and that the terms
on which the designated parties
have agreed to provide such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into agreements with
others in connection with the delivery of the Refunding Bonds, and
from time to time thereafter so long
as the Refunding Bonds are outstanding, as may be determined by
the Director of Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for
(i) the method of determining the
variable interest rates, (ii) the
rights and procedures for tender,
(iii) liquidity or credit support, (iv)
repayment by the City of any
amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument, (v) the direct
purchase of Refunding Bonds, and
(vi) other arrangements in the best
interests of the City. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to terminate any such agreements if the
Director
of
Finance
determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the City’s
best interests will be served by such
termination.
The
Director
of
Finance is further authorized to
enter into agreements, from time to
time so long as the variable rate
Refunding Bonds are outstanding,
supplementing
or
amending
the
applicable Supplemental Indenture
for a series of Refunding Bonds as
provided in Section 9. To the extent
that any fees and expenses associated with agreements entered into
or terminated pursuant to this Sec-

313

5
tion are not paid from proceeds of
Revenue Bonds, those fees and
expenses shall be paid from Program Funds and Nontax Revenues
appropriated for the purpose.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in fully registered form. If so provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, the Refunding Bonds
may be delivered in book entry
form. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into any agreements determined by the Director to
be necessary in connection with a
book-entry system for the Refunding
Bonds, after determining that those
agreements will not endanger the
funds or securities of the City under
the Trust Indenture (as evidenced
by the Director’s signing of those
agreements).
(c) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds of each series
shall be dated as of the date or
dates provided in the Certificate of
Award for that series. The Refunding Bonds of each series shall be
issued in the denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture
for that series.
(d) Interest and Place of Payment. The Refunding Bonds of each
series shall bear interest at their
respective interest rates specified in
the Certificate of Award or, in the
case of variable rate Refunding
Bonds, determined pursuant to the
Supplemental Indenture for that
series. Refunding Bonds of the same
series and same maturity may bear
interest at different interest rates.
The Refunding Bonds of each series
shall bear interest from the most
recent date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for or, if
no interest has been paid or duly
provided for, from their date. The
principal and any redemption premium and the interest payable on
each series of Refunding Bonds
shall be payable at the times, to the
persons and in the manner set forth
in, or referenced by, the applicable
Supplemental Indenture.
(e) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall mature
on the dates and in the respective
principal amounts provided in the
Certificate
of
Award,
consistent
with this Ordinance and the Trust
Indenture.
The
(f)
Prior
Redemption.
Refunding Bonds of each series may
be subject to redemption prior to
maturity at the option of the City,
if and to the extent so provided in
the Certificate of Award for that
series. Any Refunding Bonds so
determined to be subject to optional
redemption and maturing by their
stated
terms
after
the
earliest
optional redemption date shall be
subject to redemption at the option
of the City on or after the earliest
optional redemption date in whole
or in part on any date at the
redemption prices provided in the
Certificate of Award and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the Trust
Indenture. The Refunding Bonds
may
be
subject
to
mandatory
redemption prior to maturity on the
dates, or upon the occurrence of
events, and at the redemption prices
as determined and provided in the
Certificate of Award and applicable
Supplemental Indenture, including
without limitation, mandatory sink-

6
ing fund redemption of term bonds
on each mandatory redemption date
in the aggregate amount of the
sinking fund installment to be paid
on such mandatory redemption date.
Purchase
in
Lieu
of
(g)
Redemption. The Refunding Bonds
of each series may be subject to purchase by the City in lieu of optional redemption if and to the extent
provided in the Certificate of Award
and the applicable Supplemental
Indenture.
(h) Signing. The Refunding Bonds
shall be signed by the Mayor and
the
Director
of
Finance,
and
approved as to form by the Director
of Law. Any or all of the signatures
of those officials may be facsimiles.
The Refunding Bonds shall bear the
corporate seal of the City or a facsimile thereof.
(i) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. Award and Sale of
Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver a Certificate of Award
for the Refunding Bonds. In the
event the Refunding Bonds are
issued in more than one series sold
at different times, a separate Certificate of Award shall be signed
and delivered for each separately
delivered series. The sale of the
Refunding Bonds shall be awarded
to the Original Purchaser selected
by the Director of Finance and identified in the Certificate of Award. In
the case of Refunding Bonds to be
underwritten in a public offering,
the Director of Finance shall select
the Original Purchaser based on her
evaluation, in consultation with a
Financial Advisor, of the qualifications and relevant experience of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Refunding Bonds. Alternatively, the Director of Finance
may determine, in consultation with
a Financial Advisor, that more
advantageous terms for the Refunding Bonds may be obtained by the
private placement of the Refunding
Bonds with an investor or investors
(including
financial
institutions)
purchasing for their own account
and not for resale, in which case the
Director of Finance may designate
such investor or investors as the
Original
Purchaser.
In
addition,
each Certificate of Award shall
determine the following, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance and the Trust Indenture:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of Refunding Bonds issued;
(b) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchaser, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by adding to the aggregate
principal
amount
of
the
Refunding Bonds any aggregate
original issue premium and subtracting from that amount any
aggregate original issue discount,
plus (ii) any accrued interest on the
Refunding Bonds from their date to
the date of their delivery to the
Original Purchaser;
(c) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be subject to redemption prior
to maturity, and, if so, the redemption date or the event causing the
prior redemption for those Refunding Bonds and the redemption price,
which may be determined as a per-

The City Record
centage of the principal amount
redeemed or by a formula intended
to make the bondholder whole for
the loss of the investment resulting
from the early redemption or by
other methodology;
(d) the dates on which principal
of the Refunding Bonds is to be
paid, which shall be not later than
thirty (30) years from their respective dates of issuance, with an identification of whether the payment is
due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund redemption of
Refunding Bonds of a particular
maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Bonds bearing interest at fixed rates, the weighted
average of which shall not exceed
eight percent (8%), or the method
by which the interest rate is to be
determined for Refunding Bonds
bearing interest at variable rates,
consistent with Section 3;
(f) the particular Outstanding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(g) the title and series designation for the Refunding Bonds;
(h) whether the Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by a reserve fund
and, if so, the amount and source of
money to be deposited in the reserve
fund;
(i) the Paying Agent; and
(j) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set
forth in this Ordinance and as so
specified and set forth in the Certificate of Award will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
The Director of Finance may
enter into one or more Bond Purchase Agreements with the Original
Purchasers of Refunding Bonds setting forth the conditions for delivery of the Refunding Bonds that are
consistent with this Ordinance, the
Certificate of Award, and the Trust
Indenture and that are determined
by the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be customary for bonds
of similar credit worthiness and tax
status issued by governmental entities, including, without limitation,
representations as to the accuracy
and completeness of information
contained in the Official Statement
of the City described in Section 10.
Section 5. Security for the Refunding Bonds. The Refunding Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Net Project Revenues and the Nontax Revenues.
The payment of debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds is secured by a
pledge of and lien on the Bond Fund
held by the Trustee under the Indenture and by any reserve fund for
which provision is made in the
applicable Supplemental Indenture.
The Refunding Bonds are not and
shall not be secured by an obligation or pledge of any money raised
by taxation. The Refunding Bonds
do not and shall not represent or
constitute a debt or pledge of the
faith and credit or taxing power of
the City, and the owners thereof
have and shall have no right to
have taxes levied by the City for the

314

March 6, 2013
payment of debt charges thereon.
The Refunding Bonds shall contain
a statement to that effect and to the
effect that the Refunding Bonds are
payable solely from the Net Project
Revenues and the Nontax Revenues
and are not secured by an obligation or pledge of any money raised
by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Refunding Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Net
Project Revenues and any other
funds available for the purpose, to
pay the debt charges on the Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Bonds as
will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues to pay debt
charges when due.
6.
Payment
of
Debt
Section
Charges on the Refunding Bonds.
Nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the City to use or apply to
the payment of debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds any funds or revenues from any source other than
Net Project Revenues and the NonRevenues.
Subject
to
the
tax
requirements of Revised Code Section 176.04, nothing herein, however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the City,
of its own volition, from using, to
the extent that it is authorized by
law to do so, any other resources for
the fulfillment of any of the terms,
conditions or obligations of this
Ordinance or of the Refunding
Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds or
from the Net Project Revenues or
the Nontax Revenues, pay or cause
to be paid the debt charges on the
Refunding Bonds on the dates, at
the places and in the manner provided herein and in the Refunding
Bonds. For that purpose, in each
year while the Refunding Bonds are
outstanding, this Council, after providing for the payment of debt
charges payable on the City’s general obligation securities in that
year from sources available for that
purpose, will appropriate Nontax
Revenues required to pay, and for
the purpose of paying, the debt
charges due in that year on the
Bonds (less other money available
for the purpose) and any outstanding parity obligations payable from
Nontax
Revenues.
Further,
this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Refunding Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Bonds and any
other outstanding parity obligations
payable
from
Nontax
Revenues,
unless, prior to passage of the ordinance authorizing such parity obligations, the Director of Finance shall
have certified to this Council that

March 6, 2013
the Nontax Revenues during the preceding calendar year, adjusted to
reflect, if necessary, changes in the
rates or charges resulting in the
Nontax
Revenues,
aggregate
in
amount not less than 100% of the
highest amount of (a) debt charges
on the Bonds and (b) required payments on such proposed parity obligations and any other outstanding
parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Refunding
Bonds is binding upon the City, and
upon each officer or employee of the
City as may from time to time have
the authority under law to take any
action on behalf of the City as may
be necessary to perform all or any
part of such obligation, as a duty of
the City and of each of those officers and employees resulting from
an office, trust or station within the
meaning of Section 2731.01 of the
Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
Section 7. Authorization of Supplemental Indentures. The Director
of Finance is authorized, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver to the Trustee, in
trust for the holders of the Refunding Bonds, one or more Supplemental Indentures, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, not inconsistent with this Ordinance or the Certificate of Award,
and not substantially adverse to the
City as may be approved by the
Director of Finance. The determination by the Director of Finance that
a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to the City shall
be conclusively evidenced by the
signing and delivery of that Supplemental Indenture by the Director
of
Finance.
Any
Supplemental
Indenture may contain amendments
to the Trust Indenture, as theretofor
amended, or amend and restate the
Trust Indenture, to permit increased
flexibility for the use of financial or
credit structures and techniques
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
in the best interests of the City.
Section 8. Escrow Agreement. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an escrow
agreement between the City and the
Trustee, as escrow trustee, providing for, among other matters: the
investment and holding in escrow of
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds to be applied to the refunding of Refunded Bonds; the application of the moneys derived from
those investments to the payment of
the debt service charges on the
Refunded Bonds; and the irrevocable
call for redemption of the Refunded
Bonds. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the escrow agreement from
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to
the extent available and then from
Program Funds and Nontax Revenues appropriated for that purpose.
Provision shall be made in the
escrow
agreement
to
give
the
Trustee
any
written
notice
of
redemption required under the Trust
Indenture or applicable Supplemental
Indenture.
The
Director
of

The City Record
Finance and other appropriate City
officials shall sign all documents
and take all other actions necessary
or appropriate on the part of the
City to effect such refunding in
accordance with the Trust Indenture
or applicable Supplemental Indenture and to cause the Refunded
Bonds to be deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention of an independent
firm of accountants to verify the
mathematical accuracy of the calculations relating to the escrow.
Section 9. Conversion and Remarketing. In the event that the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that it is advantageous to
the City to convert the interest on
any
Outstanding
Bonds
bearing
interest at variable rates to fixed
interest rates for a period of time or
to maturity, or to convert the interest on any Outstanding Bonds to a
different variable rate period or
mode, or to terminate or take other
actions with respect to any existing
Credit Support Instrument that will
require a tender and remarketing of
any Outstanding Bonds under the
Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of Outstanding Bonds (such conversion or
other actions and the tender and
remarketing being collectively referred to in this Section as “remarketing”), the City shall undertake
the remarketing in accordance with
the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Bonds. In connection
with any remarketing of Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
take such actions that she determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, will facilitate the remarketing of the Bonds
or otherwise be in the best interests
of the City, including without limitation, obtaining one or more Credit Support Instruments, terminating
any Credit Support Instrument, and
entering into agreements with one
or more purchasers for their direct
purchase of the remarketed Bonds
in lieu of a public offering of the
Bonds by a remarketing agent. In
the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
it is necessary to supplement or
amend the Supplemental Indenture
applicable to a series of Bonds to be
remarketed in order to address current market conditions or to permit
the use of or to terminate a Credit
Support Instrument or otherwise
obtain
financing
arrangements
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to sign
and deliver an amendment of that
Supplemental
Indenture,
or
an
amended and restated Supplemental
Indenture, approved as to form by
the Director of Law, subject to the
Trust Indenture.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to satisfy any requirement for a reserve fund for any
Bonds then outstanding under the
Trust Indenture by the deposit of a
Credit Support Instrument in lieu of
cash, as provided in the Trust Indenture and applicable Supplemental
Indenture,
and
to
apply
cash
released from a reserve fund to the
payment of costs of remarketing the
Bonds for which the interest rate
has been converted from variable

315

7
rates of interest to fixed rates of
interest. To the extent the costs of
remarketing are not paid from any
cash released from a reserve fund,
those costs shall be paid from Program Funds and Nontax Revenues
appropriated for that purpose.
The Director of Finance is authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with
any conversion and remarketing
under the same terms and conditions
as set forth in Section 10 of this
Ordinance with respect to Refunding Bonds. The Director of Finance
and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance and other City
officials, as appropriate under the
Charter, are authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf
of the City to establish the date,
location, procedure and conditions
for the conversion and remarketing
of any series of Outstanding Bonds
and to take all actions necessary to
effect the conversion and remarketing of any series of Outstanding
Bonds under the terms of this Ordinance, the Trust Indenture and the
Supplemental Indenture for that
series of Outstanding Bonds. The
Clerk of Council shall furnish the
Remarketing Agent a true transcript of proceedings certified by
the Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
conversion and remarketing of any
series of Outstanding Bonds along
such
information
for
the
with
records as is necessary to determine
the validity of the conversion and
remarketing.
Section 10. Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure. The Director
of Finance is authorized, on behalf
of the City and in her official capacity, to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a preliminary
official statement relating to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds,
and (ii) determine, and certify or
otherwise represent, when the preliminary official statement as so
prepared is a “deemed final” official
statement
(except
for
permitted
omissions) by the City as of its date
for
purposes
of
Securities
and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule
15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution and
use of a preliminary official statement is authorized and approved.
The Director of Finance is also
authorized, on behalf of the City
and in her official capacity, to complete the preliminary official statement
with
such
modifications,
changes and supplements as the
Director of Finance shall approve or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to use and distribute, or
authorize the use and distribution
of, a final official statement and
supplements thereto in connection
with the original issuance of the
Refunding Bonds as may, in her

8
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is further authorized to sign and deliver,
on behalf of the City and in her official capacity, a final official statement and such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the preliminary official statement and the
final official statement and any
amendments thereto as may, in their
judgment, also be necessary or
appropriate. The Director of Finance
is authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Refunding Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
an obligated person with respect to
the Refunding Bonds under, SEC
Rule 15c2 12, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data and notices,
in such manner, as may be required
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2 12. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Refunding Bonds in accordance
with SEC Rule 15c2 12. The performance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet
costs
the
City
would
be
required to incur to perform it.
Section 11. Ratings; Credit Enhancement. If, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance, based on
written advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for
a rating on the Bonds of any series
by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is in the best
interests of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications and to
provide to each such agency such
information as may be required for
the
purpose.
The
Director
of
Finance is authorized to contract,
from time to time, for one or more
Credit Support Instruments for any
series of Bonds or any Hedge Agreement if the Director determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instrument will result in
savings to the City, will stabilize
interest rates or minimize the risk
of increased interest expense or
increased risks, burdens, or other
costs
associated
with
hedging
arrangements or relating to Bonds
or reserve requirements. The Director of Finance is further authorized
to agree to the amendment, replacement, assignment or termination of
any Credit Support Instrument if the
Director
of
Finance
determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the City’s
best interests will be served by such
amendment,
replacement,
assignment or termination. In the event
the Director of Finance determines,

The City Record
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the
Trust Indenture or a Supplemental
Indenture in order to permit the use
of, or to amend, replace, assign or
terminate, a Credit Support Instrument, the Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver a
Supplemental Indenture amending
the Trust Indenture or an amendment of a Supplemental Indenture,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law. The costs of
obtaining credit ratings and the
costs
of
amending,
replacing,
assigning or terminating each Credit Support Instrument, except to the
extent paid from proceeds of Bonds
shall be paid from Program Funds
and Nontax Revenues appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements.
This
Council
finds that by engaging in interest
rate hedging arrangements with
respect to Bonds the City may
reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative amounts of fixed
and variable rate obligations, or
minimizing the risk of variations in
its debt service costs, or obtaining
savings by confirming rates of interest on Bonds in advance of their
issuance. To permit the City to have
the flexibility to undertake interest
rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate
collar and other hedging transactions, from time to time, and to
establish the procedures for approving those transactions, this Council
authorizes the signing and delivery
of one or more agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”) and any related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section are supplemental to and not in
derogation of any authority provided by any other ordinance of this
Council concerning hedging arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Bonds
issued or to be issued under the
Trust Indenture, the Director of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that the
term of each hedge transaction shall
not exceed the final maturity of the
Bonds to which the hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the payments made or to be
made by the counterparty to the
City, or by the City to the counterparty, shall be fair value for the
Hedge
Agreement,
considering,
among other things, the credit of
the City, the credit of the counterparty and the terms and conditions
of the Hedge Agreement. The Director of Finance shall determine the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement, including without limitation, the time or times and procedures for the exercise by the counterparty or the City, as the case may

316

March 6, 2013
be, of any option under the Hedge
Agreement, whether the obligations
of the City under the Hedge Agreement shall be secured by a Credit
Support Instrument, and the rates to
be paid by the counterparty to the
City and by the City to the counterparty under the Hedge Agreement in the event of the exercise of
the option. The approval of each
interest rate hedge transaction by
the Director of Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and
delivery
of
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into an amendment,
modification or novation of any
Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement or to terminate any
Hedge Agreement, in whole or in
part, if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
(a) the amendment, modification,
novation or termination is (i) justified by the corresponding benefit to
the City, (ii) commercially reasonable based on then-current market
conditions, and (iii) in the City’s
best interests, and (b) any payments
made or to be made by the counterparty to the City, or by the City to
the counterparty, are fair value for
such amendment, modification, novation or termination, given the credit of the counterparty and the terms
and conditions of the amendment,
modification, novation or termination. To the extent that any amounts
to be paid by the City in connection
with any such amendment, modification, novation or termination are
not paid from proceeds of Refunding Bonds, those amounts shall be
paid from Program Funds and Nontax Revenues appropriated for the
purpose.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from Net Project Revenues and Nontax Revenues. The obligation of the
City to make payments under any
Hedge Agreement does not and
shall not represent or constitute a
general obligation, debt, bonded
indebtedness or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the City or the State.
Nothing gives any party to any
Hedge Agreement the right to have
excises, ad valorem or other taxes
levied by the City or the State for
the payment of any amounts due
under any Hedge Agreement.
In the event the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Trust Indenture
or a Supplemental Indenture in connection with any Hedge Agreement
or any amendment, modification,
novation or termination of any
Hedge Agreement, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver a Supplemental Indenture or
amendment of an existing Supplemental Indenture.
Section 13. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance or to negotiate any Hedge

March 6, 2013
Agreements.
The
Director
of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained. Any Financial Advisor or
consultant
employed
under
the
authority of this Ordinance shall be
disinterested in the transaction and
be independent of the underwriters
or counterparties and any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 14. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 15. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent
and the finding or holding of any
section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section to be invalid
or void shall not be deemed or held
to affect the validity of any other
section, subdivision or paragraph of
this Ordinance.
Section 16. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds
or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to,
and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding
bonds,
certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations,
indentures or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 17. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the
City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council. This Council further finds
and determines that all acts and
conditions necessary to be done or
performed by the City or to have
been met precedent to and in the
issuing of the Refunding Bonds in
order to make them legal, valid, and
binding special obligations of the
City have been performed and have
been met, or will at the time of
delivery of the Refunding Bonds
have been performed and have been
met, in regular and due form as
required by law, and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 18. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 19. Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance to issue Refunding Bonds
shall expire three years from the

The City Record
effective date of this Ordinance. If
a
preliminary
official
statement
with respect to the Refunding Bonds
is distributed under the authority of
this Ordinance at any time within
the three-year period following its
effective date, then the authority
granted by this Ordinance shall not
expire as to those Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this
Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any Refunding Bonds
under the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 20. Emergency. This ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 313-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the refunding of outstanding
stadium nontax revenue bonds.
Whereas, the City issued nontax
revenue
obligations
in
2004
to
refund obligations issued in 1999 to
pay a portion of the costs of constructing Cleveland Browns Stadium, and those obligations are currently outstanding in the principal
amount of $10,575,000 (the “Prior
Bonds”); and
Whereas, the City seeks to obtain
debt service savings by refunding
the Prior Bonds by the obligations
authorized in this Ordinance (the
“Bonds”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be refinanced with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is August 1,
2029; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that authorizing the
refunding of the Prior Bonds is necessary to enable the City to respond
to market conditions on a timely
basis to achieve debt service savings; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. This Council
finds and determines that it is necessary and proper and in the best
interests of the City to authorize the
issuance of Bonds for the purpose of
refunding the Prior Bonds, or designated portions thereof, to obtain
aggregate net present value debt
service savings of at least three percent (3%). The principal amount of
the Bonds is to be set forth in the
Certificate of Award (defined in Section 2) and shall be the amount
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance,
based
on
the
written

317

9
advice of a Financial Advisor (defined in Section 14), to be necessary
(i) to refund the Prior Bonds being
refunded, (ii) to fund any interest
on the Bonds, (iii) to fund any
deposit to a reserve fund, (iv) to
pay costs of any credit support
instruments, and (v) to pay costs of
issuing the Bonds and refunding the
Prior Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the Constitution and laws of the
state of Ohio, the Charter of the City
and this Ordinance in the principal
amount and for the purpose stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Nontax Revenue Refunding
Bonds” and may bear such further
designation as may be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Bonds shall be issued in one lot as
fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated the date
of their delivery or such other date
specified in the certificate of the
Director of Finance providing for
the final terms of the Bonds and the
sale of the Bonds in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds may be
issued as obligations the interest on
which
is
excluded
from
gross
income for federal income tax purposes (“Tax-Exempt Obligations”)
or as obligations the interest on
which is included in gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Taxable Obligations”), as determined by the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall bear interest at the
rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award; provided
that the weighted average interest
rate (taking into account the principal amount and maturity of each
Bond to which a rate applies) shall
not exceed six percent (6%) per
year if the Bonds are issued as TaxExempt Obligations or eight percent
(8%) per year if the Bonds are
issued as Taxable Obligations. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable,
until the principal amount is paid,
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year or on such other
dates specified in the Certificate of
(the “Interest Payment Dates.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in the years and amounts set
forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the final maturity
date of the Bonds shall be no later
than August 1, 2029, and (iii) the
principal amount payable in any fiscal year shall not exceed $2,000,000.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”)
on which the principal amount of
the Term Bonds shall be payable
pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of princi-

10
pal to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
Section 3. Redemption. The Bonds
shall be subject to redemption prior
to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and
be
redeemed
pursuant
to
shall
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption
price of 100 percent of the principal
amount
redeemed,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date, on
the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited in the Debt Service Fund
(as defined in Section 7) for payment of principal of and interest on
Term
Bonds
shall
include
any
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
the
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 4) for cancellation any
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit against the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligations) of the City for
such Term Bonds. A credit against
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligations) also shall be received
by the City for any Term Bonds
which
prior
thereto
have
been
redeemed (other than through the
operation of the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements) or
purchased for cancellation and canceled by the Registrar, to the extent
not applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation. On or before the fortyfifth
(45th)
day
preceding
the
applicable Mandatory Redemption
Date, the City shall furnish a certificate to the Registrar, signed by
the Director of Finance, setting
forth the years and respective principal amounts of the credit to be
applied with respect to the Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements. If the certificate is
not timely furnished to the Registrar, the credit shall be applied to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligations) in inverse order of
maturity. Each Term Bond so delivered, or previously redeemed, or purchased and canceled, shall be credited by the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of the principal amount thereof against the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) set forth in
the certificate of the Director of
Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemp-

The City Record
tion prices specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The redemption price may be
determined as a percentage of the
principal amount redeemed or by a
formula intended to make the bondholder whole for loss of the investment
resulting
from
the
early
redemption or by other methodology.
The Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award
that it is in the best interests of the
City for the Bonds not to be callable
prior to their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least thirty (30) days prior
to the redemption date or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to
Registrar.
There
shall
be
the
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designa-

318

March 6, 2013
tion, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least twenty (20) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
registered
owner’s
address
the
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held by the Registrar for the redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar as paying agent. Principal
shall be payable when due upon presentation
and
surrender
of
the
Bonds at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid on each
Interest Payment Date by check or
draft mailed to the person in whose
name the Bond was registered, and
to that person’s address appearing,
on the Bond Register (as defined in
Section 4) at the close of business
on the date provided in the Agreement authorized in Section 4 (the
“Record Date”).
Section 4. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agent. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the
purpose for which they are issued
and that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance. The Bonds shall be

March 6, 2013
signed by the Mayor and by the
Director of Finance. Either or both
of those signatures may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which may be a facsimile. The Director of Law shall
evidence approval of the form and
correctness of the Bonds by her
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Director of Finance shall sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
the
Registrar
Agreement
City,
between the City and the Registrar
(the “Agreement”) in substantially
the form as is now on file with the
Clerk of Council in File No. 313-13A. The Agreement is approved, together with any changes or amendments that are not inconsistent with
this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Agreement or
amendments to the Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Law shall determine and
approve the form and correctness of
the Agreement. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its designated corporate
trust office all books and records
necessary
for
the
registration,
exchange and transfer of Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Bond
Register”). Subject to the provisions
of Section 5 with respect to beneficial owners, the person in whose
name a Bond is registered on the
Bond Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall be affected by any notice
to the contrary, but the registration
may be changed as provided in this
Section. All such payments shall be
valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the City’s liability upon
the Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon

The City Record
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and regis-

319

11
tered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
If
the
Director
of
Depository.
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the assigns of the
Depository or its nominee, all at the
cost and expense (including any
costs of printing), if the event is not
the result of City action or inaction,
of those persons requesting such
issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
authorized
and
directed
to
the
extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 5. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more underwriters or other firms or
persons selected by the Director of
Finance and identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Bonds in accordance with law, the
provisions of this Ordinance, the
written advice of a Financial Advisor (defined in Section 14), and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount
plus accrued interest to their date of
delivery), the interest rate or rates,
the amounts and years in which
principal is payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment Dates
and the date of the Bonds (if dif-

12
ferent from those set forth in Section 2) and any other matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate
under the Charter, are, and each of
them is, authorized to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
and
to
take
such
instruments
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance may
enter into a bond purchase agreement with the Original Purchaser on
behalf of the City (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”), approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, setting forth the terms
and conditions on which the City
agrees to sell the Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy
the Bonds on terms consistent with
this Ordinance and that are determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be customary
for bonds of similar credit worthiness and tax status issued by governmental entities. It is determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, the Director
of Finance is authorized to prepare
or cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
that Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official capacity the Official Statement
and such certificates in connection
with the accuracy of the Official
Statement and any supplements as
may, in her judgment, be necessary
or appropriate. She is also authorized to determine and certify on
behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final official statements, including by printed and electronic means.

The City Record
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with the SEC Rule as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Bonds, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner, as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized and
directed to establish procedures in
order to ensure compliance by the
City with its continuing disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Section 6. Source of Payment of
the Bonds. The Bonds shall be special obligations of the City, and the
debt charges on the Bonds shall be
payable solely from moneys of the
City which are not moneys raised by
taxation, to the extent available for
the purpose of paying debt charges
on the Bonds, including, but not limited to the following: (a) grants
from the United States of America
and the state of Ohio (the “State”);
(b) payments in lieu of taxes now
or hereafter authorized by State
statute; (c) fines and forfeitures
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (d) fees deposited in
the City’s General Fund for services
provided and from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings
on
the
City’s
General
Fund; (f) investment earnings on
other funds of the City that are
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (h) gifts and donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s
General
Fund
(collectively,
the
“Nontax Revenues”). The Bonds are
not and shall not be secured by an
obligation or pledge of any money
raised by taxation. The Bonds do
not and shall not represent or constitute a debt or pledge of the faith
and credit or taxing power of the
City, and the owners thereof have
and shall have no right to have
taxes levied by the City for the payment of debt charges thereon. The
Bonds shall contain a statement to
that effect and to the effect that the
Bonds are payable solely from the
Nontax
Revenues
and
are
not
secured by an obligation or pledge
of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Bonds are outstand-

320

March 6, 2013
ing, it will appropriate and maintain
Nontax Revenues at such times and
in such amounts as will be sufficient, together with any other funds
available for the purpose, to pay the
debt charges on the Bonds and will
so restrict other obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues prior to or on
a parity with the Bonds as will
ensure the continuing availability
for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues to pay debt charges
when due.
Section 7. Debt Service Fund; Payment of Debt Charges on the Bonds.
There is created by the City a separate fund or account designated as
the “Nontax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (Cleveland Stadium Project)
Debt Service Fund” (referred to in
this Ordinance as the “Debt Service
Fund”). There shall be deposited in
the Debt Service Fund, on or prior
to the date debt charges on the
Bonds are due, Nontax Revenues in
an amount sufficient to pay those
debt charges. Money in the Debt Service Fund shall be invested in accordance with the City’s investment
policies then in effect. The payment
of debt service on the Bonds is
secured by a pledge of and lien on
the Debt Service Fund. The City
shall not be required to use or apply
to the payment of debt charges on
the Bonds any funds or revenues
from any source other than the Nontax Revenues. However, the City, of
its own volition, is not prohibited
from using, to the extent that it is
authorized by law to do so, any
other resources for the fulfillment of
any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this Ordinance or of the
Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Bonds or from the Nontax Revenues, pay or cause to be
paid the debt charges on the Bonds
on the dates, at the places and in
the manner provided in this Ordinance and in the Bonds. For that
purpose, in each year while the
Bonds are outstanding, this Council,
after providing for the payment of
debt charges payable on the City’s
general obligation securities in that
year from sources available for that
purpose, will appropriate Nontax
Revenues required to pay, and for
the purpose of paying, the debt
charges due in that year on the
Bonds (less other money available
for the purpose) and any outstanding parity obligations payable from
Nontax
Revenues.
Further,
this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Bonds
are outstanding, it shall not issue
any additional obligations payable
from the Nontax Revenues on a parity with the Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues, unless, prior
to passage of the ordinance authorizing such parity obligations, the
Director of Finance shall have cer-

March 6, 2013
tified to this Council that the Nontax Revenues during the preceding
calendar year, adjusted to reflect, if
necessary, changes in the rates or
charges resulting in the Nontax
Revenues, aggregate in amount not
less than 100% of the highest
amount of (a) debt charges on the
Bonds and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Bonds is
binding upon the City, and upon
each officer or employee of the City
as may from time to time have the
authority under law to take any
action on behalf of the City as may
be necessary to perform all or any
part of such obligation, as a duty of
the City and of each of those officers and employees resulting from
an office, trust or station within the
meaning of Section 2731.01 of the
Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
Section 8. Refunding of Prior
Bonds;
Escrow
Agreement.
The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an escrow
agreement between the City and the
registrar for the Prior Bonds, as
escrow trustee, providing for, among
other matters: the investment of the
proceeds of the Bonds in direct
obligations of the United States of
America and the holding in escrow
of the proceeds of the Bonds and
such investments to be applied to
the refunding of Prior Bonds; the
application of the moneys derived
from those investments to the payment of the debt service charges on
the Prior Bonds; and the irrevocable
call for redemption of the Prior
Bonds. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the escrow agreement from
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from Nontax
Revenues appropriated for that purpose. Provision shall be made in the
escrow agreement to give written
notice of redemption of the Prior
Bonds in accordance with their
terms. The Director of Finance and
other appropriate City officials shall
sign all documents and take all
other actions necessary or appropriate on the part of the City to effect
such refunding and to cause the
Prior Bonds to be deemed paid and
discharged, including without limitation, the retention of an independent firm of accountants to verify
the mathematical accuracy of the
calculations relating to the escrow.
Section 9. Application of Proceeds
of Bonds. The proceeds of the Bonds
shall be applied as follows: (i) an
amount determined by the Director
of Finance to be sufficient to provide for the payment of debt service
on the Prior Bonds when due and on
prior redemption shall be deposited
with the escrow trustee under the
escrow agreement authorized in Section 8, (ii) any amount determined
by the Director of Finance to be
applied to payment of interest on
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Debt Service Fund created in Sec-

The City Record
tion 7 of this Ordinance, and (iii)
the balance of the proceeds shall be
used to pay financing costs within
the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of
the Revised Code, including the cost
of any credit support with respect to
the Bonds.
Section 10. Defeasance of the
Bonds.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or make provision for
payment of the principal, any premium and interest on all the outBonds,
this
Ordinance
standing
(except for Sections 3 and 10(b))
shall cease to be of further effect,
and the covenants, agreements and
other obligations of the City under
this Ordinance shall be discharged
and satisfied.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 10(a), if:
(i) the Paying Agent shall hold in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Paying Agent shall hold
in trust for, and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed
as to payment by, the United States
of America certified by an independent firm of national reputation to
be of such maturities and interest
payment dates and to bear such
interest, without further investment
or reinvestment of either the principal amount thereof or the interest
earnings therefrom (likewise to be
held in trust and committed, except
as hereinafter provided), as will be
sufficient, together with moneys referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Registrar shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Paying Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section may
be invested in direct obligations of,
or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States of America maturing, or redeemable at the
option of the holder, at times and in
amounts sufficient to meet payment
of debt charges on the Bonds, as
directed by the Director of Finance.
Section 11. Ratings and Credit
Enhancement. If, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance, based on
written advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for
a rating on the Bonds by one or
more nationally recognized rating
agencies, or the obtaining of a credit support instrument for the Bonds
is in the best interest of, and financially advantageous to, the City, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare and submit those applications and to obtain that credit support instrument. The cost of obtaining each rating and any credit support instrument, except to the extent
paid by the Original Purchaser in
accordance with the Bond Purchase

321

13
Agreement, shall be paid from the
proceeds of the Bonds. The Director
of Finance may enter into any written agreements she determines are
necessary to obtain a credit support
consistent
with
this
instrument,
Ordinance. The form and correctness
of any such agreement shall be
determined and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 12. Federal Tax Covenants. The provisions of this Section
shall apply to the Bonds if the
Bonds are issued as Tax-Exempt
Obligations. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii) be treated
other than as bonds to which Section 103(a) of the Code applies, and
(b) the interest thereon will not be
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Bonds to the governmental
purpose
of
the
borrowing,
(ii)
restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Bonds is
also made with respect to all issues
any portion of the debt service on
which is paid from proceeds of the
Bonds (and, if different, the original
issue and any refunding issues in a
series of refundings), to the extent
such compliance is necessary to
assure exclusion of interest on the
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above are authorized
to take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
Section to take with respect to the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Bonds is authorized
(a) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf
of the City with respect to the
Bonds as the City is permitted or
required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of
the elections provided for in Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhanc-

14
ing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such compliance, reducing
the rebate amount or payments or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Bonds, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript of proceedings for the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Bonds.
Section 13. Interest Rate Hedges
and Other Arrangements. For the
purpose of achieving the optimal
available debt structure for the
Bonds, the Director of Finance may,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, enter into one or
more agreements in anticipation of,
in connection with or subsequent to
the issuance of the Bonds for an
interest rate swap, an interest rate
cap or other arrangements to lower
the effective interest rate on the
obligations of the City or to hedge
the exposure of the City against
fluctuations in prevailing interest
rates or to optimize the City’s cash
flow (a “Hedge Agreement”) provided, however, that: (i) no such
agreement or arrangement shall
purport to entitle the counterparty
or provider to payment by the City
from any source other than the
sources of payment for the Bonds as
described in this Ordinance; and (ii)
the terms of the agreements or
arrangements shall have been determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be justified by
the corresponding benefit to the
City and to be commercially reasonable based on then current market conditions.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the payments made or to be
made by the counterparty to the
City, or by the City to the counterparty, shall be fair value for the
Hedge Agreement, considering, among
other things, the City’s credit, the
credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement,
including without limitation, the
time or times and procedures for the
exercise by the counterparty or the
City, as the case may be, of any
option under the Hedge Agreement,
whether the obligations of the City

The City Record
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
secured by a credit support instrument, and the rates to be paid by
the counterparty to the City and by
the City to the counterparty under
the Hedge Agreement in the event
of the exercise of the option. The
approval of each interest rate hedge
transaction
by
the
Director
of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of the applicable Hedge Agreement
by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into an amendment,
modification or novation of any
Hedge Agreement or any credit support instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement or to terminate any
Hedge Agreement, in whole or in
part, if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
(a) the amendment, modification,
novation or termination is (i) justified by the corresponding benefit to
the City, (ii) commercially reasonable based on then-current market
conditions, and (iii) in the City’s
best interests, and (b) any payments
made or to be made by the counterparty to the City, or by the City to
the counterparty, are fair value for
such amendment, modification, novation or termination, given the credit of the counterparty and the terms
and conditions of the amendment,
modification, novation or termination. To the extent that any amounts
to be paid by the City in connection
with any such amendment, modification, novation or termination are
not paid from proceeds of the Bonds,
those amounts shall be paid from
Nontax Revenues appropriated for
the purpose.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from Nontax Revenues. The obligation of the City to make payments
under any Hedge Agreement does
not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt,
bonded indebtedness or a pledge of
the faith and credit of the City or
the State. Nothing gives any party
to any Hedge Agreement the right
to have excises, ad valorem or other
taxes levied by the City or the State
for the payment of any amounts due
under any Hedge Agreement. The
form and correctness of any agreement entered into under authority of
this Section shall be approved by
the Director of Law.
Section 14. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisory firms (each a “Financial
Advisor”), from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance or to negotiate any Hedge
Agreements. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any Financial Advisor so retained.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction
Section 15. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage

322

March 6, 2013
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 16. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds in order to make
then legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened,
been done and been performed in
regular and due form as required be
law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have
been exceeded in the issuance of the
Bonds. It is further found and determined, and is represented and recited, that this Ordinance was passed
in compliance with all applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council.
Section 17. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance
is authorized and directed to forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds to the County
Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County.
Section 18. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 19. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
notes, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, trust indentures,
trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered
into by the City and for which consideration was duly received by the
City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 20. Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance to issue Bonds to refund
the Prior Bonds shall expire three
years from the effective date of this
Ordinance. If a preliminary official
statement with respect to the Bonds
is distributed under the authority of
this Ordinance at any time within

March 6, 2013
the three-year period following its
effective date, then the authority
granted by this Ordinance shall not
expire as to those Bonds. The Director of Finance shall notify the
Chairman of the Finance Committee
and the Clerk of this Council of the
initiation of the issuance of any
Bonds under the authority of this
Ordinance.
Section 21. Emergency Measure.
This ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to refund
the Prior Bonds and obtain debt service savings, and for the usual daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected
to Council, it shall take effect and
be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 314-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts
of
water
requirement
mains, fire hydrants, water main
appurtenances, service connections,
underground
enclosures,
concrete
repair, and tree lawn restoration,
including material, labor, and installation for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a period up to two
years of the necessary items of
water mains, water main appurtenances, fire hydrants, service connections,
underground
enclosures,
concrete
repair,
and
tree
lawn
restoration,
including
material,
labor, and installation in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of any purchase under the contract,
each of which purchases shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the
contract or contracts and certified
by the Director of Finance. (RQN
2002, RL 2013-5)

The City Record
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 315-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 773-A-80,
passed December 14, 1981 to define
“dumpster”, amend Section 551.991,
as amended by Ordinance No. 129111, passed December 5, 2011 regarding civil infractions, and to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 to enact new
Section 551.114, Dumpster Placement
and Time Limit.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 551.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed December
14, 1981 and Section 551.991, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1291-11,
passed December 5, 2011, are amended and new Section 551.114 is enacted as follows:
Section 551.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Garbage” means all putrescible wastes, including, but not limited to, vegetable matter, animal
offal, carcasses of dead animals and
the like, excluding recognized industrial by-products.
(b) “Industrial waste” includes
rubbish and processing wastes associated with mechanical or chemical
transformation
of
inorganic
or
organic substances into new products or from assembling component
parts.
(c) “Solid waste” means such
unwanted residual solid or semisolid material as results from industrial, commercial, agricultural, household, community and private operations, excluding earth material from
construction,
mining,
demolition
operations, and slag. Such material
shall be deemed to include, but not
be limited to, garbage, rubbish (both
combustible and noncombustible),
street dirt, debris, ashes, any discarded matter to be removed from
public and private properties and

323

15
other like substances which may be
harmful or inimical to public health,
as well as other items determined to
be solid waste by the Director of
Public Service.
(d) “Dumpster” means a large
steel or other material waste receptacle used to store rubbish until it
is emptied by a garbage truck or
removal service and disposed of or
recycled. A dumpster includes the
brand “Waste Management Bagster,
Dumpster in a Bag” or other similar products.
Section 551.114 Dumpster Placement and Time Limit
(a) No person shall set out waste
in a dumpster for more than 14 days
without obtaining a dumpster permit issued by the Commissioner of
Assessments
and
Licenses.
The
Director of Public Service shall
determine the permit fee and permit
application
contents
with
the
approval of Council.
(b) When setting out a dumpster
for use on private property, placement shall be made in either the drior
backyard
unless
imveway
practicable.
Section 551.991 Civil Infractions
Civil
Enforcement
System
(a)
Established. The City of Cleveland
hereby adopts a civil enforcement
system for the infractions established by this section. This civil
enforcement system imposes monetary liability on the responsible parties as defined in division (m).
In addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances, each of the following sections may be enforced
through the issuance of a ticket to
the responsible parties as defined in
division (m):
(1) Section 551.04, division (d),
relating to the early set out of
waste.
(2) Section 551.04, division (e),
relating to failing to remove a
waste container after collection.
(3) Section 551.111, division (a)
and division (b), relating to excessively large quantity of waste for
collection.
(4) Section 551.041, division (a),
relating to automated waste collection and recycling infractions.
(5) Section 551.114, division (a),
relating to setting out a dumpster
without a permit, and division (b),
relating to placement of a dumpster.
Any person who violates any of
the foregoing prohibitions has committed an infraction for which liability is imposed by division (b)
upon the responsible parties as
defined in division (m).
(b) Liability Imposed. Each owner
of a parcel at which an infraction
has occurred is liable to the City of
Cleveland in the amounts established in divisions (f) and (g).
(c) Noncriminal Offense; No Conviction. The infractions established
by this section are noncriminal. The
imposition of liability upon the
responsible parties under this section shall not be deemed a conviction for any purpose.
(d) Other Costs and Penalties Not
Abrogated. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as altering or
limiting the effects of any other section of these Codified Ordinances,

16
the criminal penalties imposed by
any such other section, or the ability of a law enforcement officer to
enforce those sections.
(e) Tickets — Service; Contents.
If a violation of division (a) is
observed by an employee of the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal or any other City employee whose duties include the enforcement of this section, then the Director of Public Works shall cause the
responsible parties to be issued a
ticket. The ticket shall be served by
sending it via regular U.S. mail,
prepaid,
to
the
parcel
postage
owner(s) at the tax mailing address
shown in the records of the County
Recorder.
The date of mailing of the ticket
shall be deemed to be the date of
issuance of the ticket. If the mailing is unreturned, then it shall
establish that the respondents were
given actual or constructive notice
of the imposition of liability under
this section.
The ticket shall identify the parcel owner(s) as respondents. The
ticket shall state that the respondents are responsible parties for the
commission of a civil infraction
under this section.
The
ticket
shall
inform
the
respondents of the procedure to file
an appeal and the time frame for filing it. The ticket shall state that
failure to appeal the ticket or pay
the costs imposed not later than
twenty (20) days from the date of
issuance of the ticket shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest
the ticket and shall be considered
an admission. The ticket shall further state that if the ticket is not
appealed or paid in that time frame,
then a default finding of civil liability shall be imposed upon respondents for the costs established in
divisions (f) and (g).
The ticket may be in any format
that includes all of the elements
required by this section.
(f) Penalties Established. The
costs imposed by this section upon
the responsible parties for the commission of an infraction contrary to
division (a) shall be assessed in
accordance
with
the
following
schedule:
Section Civil Penalty
551.111, division (a)
$250.00
551.111, division (b)
$500.00
551.04, division (d)
$100.00
551.04, division (e)
$100.00
551.041, division (a)
$100.00
551.114, division (a)
$100.00
551.114, division (b)
$100.00
The costs established by this section are imposed upon the responsible parties both as civil penalties
and to reimburse the City for a portion of the costs incurred by it in
the enforcement of infractions, and
for some infractions, the increased
costs of solid waste disposal.
(g) Late Penalties. Late penalties
shall be assessed in accordance with
the following schedule:
(1) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid twenty (20)
days after the ticket is issued or
twenty (20) days after the conclusion of all appeals, an additional
twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be
assessed; and

The City Record
(2) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid forty (40)
days after the ticket is issued or
forty (40) days after the conclusion
of all appeals, an additional forty
dollars ($40.00) shall be added to the
twenty
dollars
($20.00)
assessed
under division (g)(1) for a total
additional penalty of sixty dollars
($60.00) in such a case.
(h)
Appeals
—
Timing.
Any
respondent or other person who is
liable
for
the
costs
potentially
imposed by this section may appeal
the imposition of liability to the
Director of Public Works or his or
her designee, which may include the
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court in his or her capacity as Parking Violations Bureau Administrator
or otherwise, in the manner described in the ticket. As used in
divisions (h), (i) and (j) of this section, “Director” means the Director
of Public Works or his or her
designee.
The appeal shall be taken not
later than twenty (20) days from
the date of issuance of the ticket.
Failure to appeal the ticket or pay
the costs imposed within this time
period shall constitute a waiver of
the right to contest the ticket and
shall be considered an admission.
(i) Appeal — Process. The Director shall establish an administrative
appeal process for persons to appeal
tickets issued under this section.
The administrative appeal process
shall allow the appellant the right
to present appellant’s case in person
and may allow for evidence to be
presented ex-parte. The strict rules
of evidence applicable to courts of
law shall not apply in any administrative hearing or ex-parte review.
The ticket charging the offense
shall constitute prima facie evidence
that the offense identified in the
ticket occurred and that the parcel
owner(s) to whom the ticket was
mailed are the responsible parties
as defined in division (m) and are
liable to the City of Cleveland for
the costs imposed by this section.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant is liable under this section for
the costs assessed, then the Director
shall dismiss the appeal and order
the appellant to pay the costs identified in the ticket.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant is liable under this section for
the costs assessed but that there are
reasons for the commission of the
infraction that mitigate the offense,
then the Director shall dismiss the
appeal and order the appellant to
pay the costs identified in the ticket, but may in the interest of equity reduce the costs assessed.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that the appellant is not liable under this section
for the costs assessed, then the
Director shall dismiss the ticket and
grant the appeal.
(j) Appeal of the Director’s Decision. Any person subject to an
adverse decision of the Director may
appeal that decision to the Board of
Zoning
Appeals.
The
notice
of
appeal shall be in writing and shall
be filed with the Board of Zoning
Appeals within ten (10) days of the

324

March 6, 2013
decision of the Director. The Board
shall approve, modify or annul the
finding from which the appeal is
taken.
(k) Collection. The costs imposed
by this section may be enforced and
collected by means of a civil action
or any other means provided for in
these Codified Ordinances or the
Ohio Revised Code.
(l) Rules and Regulations. The
Director of Public Works may issue
rules and regulations to carry out
the provisions of these sections,
which shall be effective thirty (30)
days after their publication in the
City Record.
(m) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Director” means the Director
of Public Works and in the case of
appeals, the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee.
(2) “Owner” or “parcel owner”
mean the person(s) shown in the
records of the County Recorder as
having legal title to the parcel on
which someone has failed to adhere
to division (a).
(3) “Person” includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, and association.
(RC 1.59(C))
(4) “Responsible party” and “responsible parties” has the same meaning
as “owner” or “parcel owner”.
Section 2. That existing Section
551.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed December 14, 1981 and Section 551.991,
as amended by Ordinance No. 129111, passed December 5, 2011 are
repealed, and new Section 551.114 is
enacted.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Service,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 316-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Craig Motor Company
Building (also known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn
Building) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Craig
Motor
Company
Building
(also
known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn Building) as a
landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on November 8, 2012 to discuss
the proposed designation of the
Craig
Motor
Company
Building
(also known as the National Casket
Company and the Kohn Building) as
a landmark; and

March 6, 2013
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Craig
Company
Building
(also
Motor
known as the National Casket Company and the Kohn Building) as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health, and safety in that the
immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or
value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Craig Motor
Company Building (also known as
the National Casket Company and
the Kohn Building), whose street
address in the City of Cleveland is
3800-12 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Number is 103-08-011 and is also
known as the following described
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 1 and 2 in Mueller and
Meyer’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 68, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 53 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a point on the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, distant 409 and 69/100 feet Westerly
from the point of intersection of
said Southerly line of Euclid Avenue
with the Westerly line of East 40th
Street, said place of beginning being
also the Northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to S. W. Crittenden
by deed dated July 31, 1865, and
recorded in Volume 135, Page 566 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 75 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to William G. Rose by
deed dated July 3, 1884, and recorded in Volume 371, Page 155 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Southerly at right angles to Euclid Avenue, and along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to William G.
Rose, 223 and 92/100 feet to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 2;
thence Easterly parallel to the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue and
along the Southerly line of said
Sublots Nos. 2 and 1, 75 feet to the
Westerly line of land conveyed to S.
W. Crittenden as aforesaid; thence
Northerly at right angles to Euclid
Avenue and along the Westerly line
of land so conveyed to S. W. Crittenden, 223 and 92/100 feet to the
place of beginning, Permanent Parcel No(s): 103-08-011;
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,

The City Record
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 317-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Cleveland
Masonic Temple as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on November 8, 2012 to discuss
the proposed designation of the
Cleveland Masonic Temple as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Cleveland Masonic Temple as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Cleveland
Masonic Temple, whose street address in the City of Cleveland is
3615-35 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Numbers are 103-07-005 and 103-07-006
and is also known as the following
described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Ten Acre Lot No. 91, bounded and described as follows:
1. Beginning in the north line of
Euclid Avenue at the Southwest corner of lands conveyed by Mabel
Weddell to Samuel E. Williamson by
deed dated September 12, 1895 and
recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly along the North line of
Euclid Avenue one hundred and ten
(110) feet; thence Northerly and parallel to the West line of said land
so conveyed in Volume 614, Page 23
about five hundred and fifty (550)
feet to the Southerly line of an alley
ten (10) feet wide in the Subdivision
of Webster and Weddell which is
recorded in Volume 13, Page 36 of
Cuyahoga County Records of Maps
and Subdivisions; thence Westerly

325

17
and along the Southerly line of said
ten foot alley, about one hundred
and ten (110) feet to the West line
of said lands so conveyed to Samuel
E. Williamson by deed recorded in
Volume 614, Page 23; thence Southerly along the West line of said lands
so conveyed to Samuel E. Williamson about five hundred and fifty
(550) feet to the place of beginning;
2. Beginning on the Easterly line
of lands conveyed by Mabel Weddell
to Samuel E. Williamson by deed
dated September 12, 1895, and recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records at a point two
hundred (200) feet Southerly measured on said Easterly line from the
Southerly line of the ten (10) foot
alley which forms the Northerly
boundary of Grantor’s land; which
point of beginning is also about
three hundred and fifty (350) feet
Northerly, measured on said Easterly line from the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue; thence Northerly
along said Easterly line two hundred (200) feet to the Southerly line
of the aforementioned alley; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said alley one hundred and eleven
(111) feet to the Westerly line of
Grantor's lands; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line two hundred (200) feet; thence Easterly in
a straight line about one hundred
and eleven (111) feet to the place of
beginning, be the same, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways;
3. Beginning on the Northerly line
of Euclid Avenue at a point 110 feet
Easterly, as measured on said line
from the Southwesterly corner of
lands conveyed by Mabel Weddell to
Samuel
E.
Williamson
by
deed
recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue one hundred and
eleven (111) feet; thence Northerly
along the Easterly line of land so
conveyed by deed recorded in Volume 614, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records about three hundred and
fifty (350) feet to the Southeasterly
corner of premises conveyed by Jane
A. Tracy and Edward Bushnell,
Trustees under the last will of
James J. Tracy to the Masonic
Building Association by deed dated
October 18, 1915; thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of premises so conveyed to the Masonic Building association about one hundred
and eleven (111) feet to the Westerly line of land conveyed to James
J. Tracy by deed recorded in Volume
863, Page 347 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
James J. Tracy by deed recorded in
Volume 863, Page 347 of Cuyahoga
County Records about three hundred
and fifty (350) feet to the place of
beginning, be the same, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways;
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cul-

18
tural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 318-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance designating Villa Angela-St. Joseph High
School as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate Villa AngelaSt. Joseph High School as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on December 10, 2009 to discuss
the proposed designation of Villa
Angela-St. Joseph High School as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended
designation
of
Villa
Angela-St. Joseph High School as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Villa Angela-St.
Joseph High School, whose street
addresses in the City of Cleveland
are 18491 Lake Shore Boulevard, N.
E., and 430 East 185th Street, Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Number is 114-13-001, and is
also known as the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Parcel “A” in the Consolidation and
Lot Split Plat of part of Original
Euclid Township Tract Number 15
of Township 8 North, Range 11
West, of the Connecticut Western
Reserve, as recorded in Volume 263
of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records, further described as follows:
All that portion of New Parcel “B”
in the lot split plat for the Diocese
of Cleveland and Most Reverend
Richard G. Lennon, Bishop as shown
in Volume 357 of Maps, Page 39 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and containing 9.841 acres, be the same
more or less, and subject to all legal
highways;

The City Record
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 319-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Fine Arts Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Fine Arts
Building as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on November 8, 2012 to discuss
the proposed designation of the Fine
Arts Building as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Fine
Arts Building as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health, and safety in that the
immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or
value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Fine Arts
Building, whose street address in
the City of Cleveland is 3224-30
Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Numbers are 103-06-006 and 103-06-023 and
is also known as the following
described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Ten Acre Lot No. 64, bounded and described as follows:
1. Beginning on the Southerly line
of Euclid Avenue, at the Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 5 in John
Blair's Subdivision, as recorded in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 43 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue, 55 feet and 2 inches
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to John J. Gallagher and

326

March 6, 2013
Jewel Gallagher by deed dated June
30, 1945, and recorded in Volume
5886, Page 416 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of land so conveyed to
John J. and Jewel Gallagher, 145
feet to the Southwesterly corner
thereof; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to John J. and Jewel Gallagher, 44
feet and 4 inches to the Westerly
line of land conveyed to John M.
Henderson by deed dated March 2,
1916, and recorded in Volume 1791,
594
of
Cuyahoga
County
Page
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of land so conveyed to
John M. Henderson, about 54 feet
and 6 inches to a point which is
equal distant between the Southerly
line of Euclid Avenue and the
Northerly line of Prospect Avenue,
S. E.; thence Westerly along said
equal distant line, 99 feet and 6
inches to its intersection with the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 5, about 199
feet and 6 inches to the place of
beginning, be the same, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways (Permanent Parcel Number:
103-06-006; Prior Reference Number:
Volume 14654, Page 609);
2. Beginning on the Southerly line
of Euclid Avenue at the Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to John
M. Henderson by deed dated March
2, 1916, and recorded in Volume 1791,
Page
594
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 44
feet and 4 inches; thence Southerly
and parallel with the Westerly line
of land so conveyed to John M. Henderson 145 feet; thence Easterly and
parallel with the Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue 44 feet and 4 inches
to the Westerly line of land conveyed to John M. Henderson, as
aforesaid; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of land so conveyed to John M. Henderson, 145
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same, more or less, but subject
to all legal highways (Permanent
Parcel Number 103-06-023; Prior Reference
Number:
Volume
86-2007,
Page 55);
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section, Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.

March 6, 2013

The City Record

19

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 320-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of land located at Pershing and Interstate 77 to
General Industry, an ‘A’ Area District and a 3 Height District (Map Change No. 2405).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows;
Beginning in the centerline of Pershing Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Interstate 77;
Thence southerly along said centerline of Interstate 77 also known as Willow Freeway to its intersection with
the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Parcel A of a Plat of Consolidation prepared for The
Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation recorded in Volume 372, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records; Auditor’s File Number 201212260310;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line to a northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with a southwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly and northwesterly along said southwesterly line and continuing along its northwesterly
prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Independence Road;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Independence Road to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of a northeasterly line of the aforementioned Parcel A of a Plat of Consolidation prepared for The
Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation;
Thence southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation of said northeasterly line to its intersection with
a northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with a southwesterly line thereof;
Thence northwesterly and northerly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly, southerly, easterly, northerly and easterly again along said northerly line of the aforementioned Parcel A and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Interstate
77 also known as Willow Freeway;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Interstate 77 to its intersection with the centerline of Pershing Avenue
and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Industry District, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘3’
Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2405, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning, Finance.

327

20
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 321-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brancatelli and Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 213-13, passed February 11, 2013
that authorizes the Clerk of Council
to enter into an agreement to provide professional consulting services
to evaluate the impact of abandonment and foreclosure in Cuyahoga
County and strategies for market
recovery
through
demolition
for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 213-13,
passed February 11, 2013 is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Western
Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute to
provide professional consulting services to evaluate the impact of
abandonment and foreclosure in
Cuyahoga County and strategies for
market recovery through demolition
for Cleveland City Council.
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Western Reserve
Land Conservancy d/b/a Thriving
Communities Institute to provide
professional consulting services to
evaluate the impact of abandonment
and foreclosure in Cuyahoga County and strategies for market recovery through demolition for Cleveland City Council. This agreement
shall be entered into as of February
11, 2013 and shall be for a term concluding December 31, 2013.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 21313, passed February 11, 2013 is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 16. Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Cimperman,
Cummins,
Dow, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Reed,
Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
J. Johnson.
Absent: Council Members Conwell
and Pruitt.

The City Record
Ord. No. 323-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1689-11,
passed November 28, 2011, relating
to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November
28, 2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor,
Directors of Departments, Planning
Director, Executive Director Community Relations Board, Executive
Assistants to the Mayor.
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by
the Mayor at not less than $50,795.78
and not more than $183,340.00 per
annum.
(b) That the salary of the Directors of Law, Finance, Economic
Development, Public Safety, Public
Works, Public Health, Personnel and
Human Resources, Community Development, Building and Housing,
Aging, the Planning Director, the
Executive Director of the Community Relations Board, and Executive
Assistants to the Mayor shall be
fixed by the Mayor at not less than
$50,795.81
and
not
more
than
$176,729.77 per annum.
(c) That the salary of the Directors of Port Control and Public Utilities shall be fixed by the Mayor at
not less than $100,000.00 and not
more than $229,582.16 per annum.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed
November 28, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 324-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Urban Community
Schools Run, on May 11, 2013, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves

328

March 6, 2013
the holding of the Urban Community Schools Run, on May 11, 2013,
start: West 48th and Lorain; West
48th to Franklin; Franklin to West
29th; West 29th to Circle Dr.; Circle
Dr. to Fulton; Fulton to Bridge;
Bridge to West 36th; West 36th to
Fulton; return same route to finish;
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 322-13.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution supporting the application of Cleveland
State University to the Ohio Development Services Agency for Ohio
Historic Preservation Tax Credits
for the restoration of the Mather
Mansion located at 2605 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, each year the State of
Ohio through the Ohio Development
Services Agency allocates Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credits to encourage private investment in historically significant buildings throughout Ohio using a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain historic buildings in Cleveland’s neighborhoods, and desires to
have the Mather Mansion, a prominent, historic, architecturally significant landmark, restored; and
Whereas,
located
along
Cleveland’s historic “Euclid Avenue Millionaire’s Row,” the Mather Mansion
at 2605 Euclid Avenue is one of the
few remaining grand Row mansions
that are still standing today; and
Whereas, at the time of the mansion’s completion in 1910, this elmlined section of Euclid Avenue was
internationally
known
for
its
wealthy residents and unparalleled
architecture, and the substantial
44,520 square foot masonry residence, designed by Cleveland architect Charles F. Schweinfurt, is an
early yet significant example of his
Tudor Revival style; and

March 6, 2013
Whereas, in 1973, the Mather Mansion became the first building in
Cleveland to be placed on the
National Register of Historic Places,
highlighting its importance as a
major contributor to the history and
character of Cleveland; and
Whereas, in 1967, Cleveland State
University purchased the building
for office and conference space, and
used the space until 2011; and
Whereas, Cleveland State University now plans to cause a complete
historic restoration of the interior
and exterior of the Mather Mansion
in compliance with the Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings to be
for
office
and
conference
used
space; and
Whereas, restoration of this highly significant structure will ensure
the Mansion’s continued existence
as one of the greatest, and last,
architectural testaments to this period of Cleveland’s history; and
Whereas, the completion of this
project will set a strong example of
the continued importance of the
revitalization of Cleveland’s neighborhoods, will positively stimulate
the local economy with skilled construction jobs and local investment,
and preserve a local landmark that
has received support from Cleveland
State University and the community
at large; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the restoration of the Mather Mansion as a high priority initiative for future development in the
community for the benefit the citizens of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application of Cleveland
State University to the Ohio Development Services Agency for Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credits for the
restoration of the Mather Mansion
located at 2605 Euclid Avenue.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to Stephanie
McHenry, Chief Financial Officer,
Vice President for Business Affairs
and Finance.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 325-13.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 4995-97 Denison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement and repealing
Resolution No. 1030-12, objecting to
said renewal.

The City Record
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to Pink Slips,
Inc., 4995-97 Denison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 6932324 by
Resolution No. 1030-12, adopted by
the Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to Pink Slips, Inc.,
4995-97 Denison Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 6932324, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1030-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 326-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 720 East 131st
Street and repealing Resolution No.
1223-12, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 720 East
131st Street by Resolution No. 122312 adopted by the Council on September 10, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Keila Malone,
DBA Alyakaj, 720 East 131st Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 5461550, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1223-12, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

329

21
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 327-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 770
East 185th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1123-12, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to Winners on 185th, DBA
Winners Sports Club & Grill, 770
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 9710420 by
Resolution No. 1123-12, adopted by
the Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to Winners on 185th, DBA Winners Sports Club & Grill, 770 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
Permanent Number 9710420, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1123-12, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 332-13.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution urging
the president of Charter One Bank
to reconsider the closing of two
Charter One branches located at
13709 Lorain Avenue and 11623
Clifton Avenue in Cleveland, Ohio in
order to maintain convenient banking opportunities for neighborhood
residents as demonstrated by the
current assets of each respective
branch office and further urging
Charter One to work with the community to help maintain vibrant
neighborhoods by offering favorable
lease terms and alternative banking
services, such as ATMs.

22
Whereas, Charter One Bank has
announced its intention to close its
bank branch located at 13709 Lorain
Avenue on May 15, 2013 and its bank
branch located at 11623 Clifton
Avenue on May 16, 2013; and
Whereas,
losing
these
bank
branches in the Jefferson and Cudell/Edgewater neighborhoods, will
diminish convenient banking opportunities for both residents and businesses; and
Whereas, both neighborhoods include a large concentration of residential units as well as merchants
who rely on these bank branches for
their banking needs and closing
these branches will cause unnecessary hardship to them; and
Whereas, both branches are located in middle income neighborhoods
and closing these bank branches
will disrupt the character of the
respective commercial districts; and
Whereas, Charter One Bank maintains significant customer deposits,
which include $29.7 million in the
Lorain Avenue branch and $27.6 million in the Clifton Avenue branch;
and
Whereas, the City is making significant improvements to the public
infrastructure in both bank location
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, both respective Community Development Corporations have
been active to sustain the economic
health and revitalization of both
areas of the Charter One Bank locations; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the president of the Charter One
Bank to reconsider the closing of
two Charter One branches located at
13709 Lorain Avenue and 11623
Clifton Avenue in Cleveland, Ohio in
order to maintain convenient banking opportunities for neighborhood
residents as demonstrated by the
current assets of each respective
branch office.
Section 2. That this Council urges
Charter One to work with the community to help maintain vibrant
neighborhoods by offering favorable
lease terms and alternative banking
services, such as ATMs.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Ken Marblestone,
President, Charter One Bank, 1215
Superior Ave, Cleveland, Ohio 44144.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 16. Nays 1.

The City Record
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Reed,
Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Cimperman.
Absent: Council Members Conwell
and Pruitt.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 170-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations and provide current
expenses for the daily operation of
all municipal departments of the
City of Cleveland for the fiscal year
from January 1, 2013 until December
31, 2013.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 3 and
4 in their entirety and insert “The
sum of Five Hundred Thirty Eight
Million, Nine Hundred Forty Thousand, Seven Hundred Seventy Two
Dollars ($538,940,772), from the General Fund;”; and in line 13, in the
line beginning with “The sum of
Fifty Nine Million,” strike “Sixty”
and insert “Six”.
2. In Section 1, page 1, in line 2
of the table, at “Judicial Branch”,
strike
“39,453,461”
and
insert
“39,545,833”, in line 5, at “Department
of Aging”, strike “938,634” and insert
“1,115,075”; in line 10, at “Department
of Public Safety”, strike “311,669,856”
and insert “311,719,856”; in line 13, at
“Department of Building and Housing”, strike “10,264,960” and insert
“10,337,933”; in line 15, at “Nondepartmental”,
strike
“50,541,105”
and insert “50,716,105”; in line 16, at
“Total
Executive
Branch”
strike
“491,750,347” and insert “492,224,761”;
and in line 17 at “TOTAL GENERAL FUND”, strike “538,373,986” and
insert “538,940,772”.
3. In Section 1, page 2, at “TOTAL
APPROPRIATIONS
FOR
2013”,
strike
“1,344,248,890”
and
insert
“1,344,815,676”.
4. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”, strike the entry for “JUDICIAL BRANCH” in its entirety and
insert the following entry:
“JUDICIAL BRANCH — Municipal
Court
—
Judicial
Division
—
$21,774,347; I Personnel and Related
Expenses — $19,149,395; II Other
Expenses — 2,624,952; Municipal
Court
—
Clerk’s
Division
—
$14,284,965; I Personnel and Related
Expenses — $9,239,703; II Other
Expenses — 5,045,262; Municipal
Court
—
Housing
Division
—
$3,486,521; I Personnel and Related
Expenses — $3,338,886; II Other
Expenses — 147,635; TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH — $39,545,833”.
5. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”,
at
“DEPARTMENT
OF
AGING”, at “Department of Aging”
strike “938,634” and insert “1,115,075”;
at
“I.
Personnel
and
Related
Expenses”,
strike
“789,879”
and
insert “866,320”; at “II. Other Expenses”,
strike
“148,755”
and
insert
“248,755”; and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING”, strike “938,634”
and insert “1,115,075”.

330

March 6, 2013
6. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND”, at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Division of AniControl
Services”,
strike
mal
“1,317,167” and insert “1,367,167”; at
“II. Other Expenses” strike “356,892”
and insert “406,892”; and at “TOTAL
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY” strike “311,669,856” and insert
“311,719,856”.
7. In Section 1, page 8, line 5, at
“DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT”, strike “DIRECTOR’S OFFICE”.
8. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
at
“DEPARMTENT
OF
FUND”,
AND
HOUSING”,
at
BUILDING
“Building and Housing Director’s
Office” strike “2,565,035” and insert
“2,617,035”; at “II. Other Expenses”,
strike “900,522” and insert “952,522”;
strike “Division of Construction Permit” and the figure of “$1,561,276”
and insert “Division of Construction
Permitting”
and
the
figure
of
“1,582,249”; at “I. Personnel and
Related Expenses” strike “1,544,951”
insert
“1,565,924”,
and
at
and
“TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDAND
HOUSING”,
strike
ING
“10,264,960” and insert “10,337,933”.
9. In Section 1, at “NONDEPARTMENTAL” at “Transfers to Other
Funds”, strike “31,258,056” and insert
“31,433,056”; at “II. Other Expenses”
“31,258,056”
and
insert
strike
“31,433,056”.
10. In Section 1, at “TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL”, strike “50,541,105”
and insert “50,716,105”; at “TOTAL
EXECUTIVE
BRANCH”
strike
“491,750,347” and insert “492,224,761”;
and at “TOTAL GENERAL FUND”
strike
“538,373,986”
and
insert
“538,940,772”.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 545-12.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Dow, Mitchell, Westbrook, Polensek,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Pruitt and
Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new section 171.66, relating to residency requirements.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Employment,
Affirmative,
Action,
and Training, Legislation, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
171.66
Residency
Requirements,
delete section (b) in its entirety,
and insert new section (b) to read
as follows:
(b) In order to ensure adequate
response times to emergencies and
disasters, certain employees or classifications are designated as emergency responders who shall reside
within Cuyahoga County or any one
of the following adjacent counties:
Lake,
Geauga,
Summit,
Medina,
Lorain or Portage, within the state
of Ohio:
1. All employees of the Department of Public Safety;
2. All employees of the Department of Port Control, Divisions of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Burke Lakefront Airport
and Harbor;

The City Record

March 6, 2013
3. All employees of the Department of Public Utilities, Divisions of
Cleveland Public Power, Water, and
Water Pollution Control;
4. All employees of the Department of Public Works, Divisions of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Property Management, Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Waste Collection,
and Streets;
5. All employees of the Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects;
6. In the Division of Information
Technology and Services, Department
of
Finance,
Commissioner,
Assistant
Commissioner,
Deputy
Commissioner, Managers, Assistant
Managers, Telephone Operator, Citizens
Information
Representative;
Telecommunications Technician, Telecommunications Analyst I, Budget
Analyst, Supervisor of Systems and
Tech Support, PC Technician, Supervisor of Hardware Evaluation, Systems Analyst, Data Base Coordinator, and Web Developer;
7. In the Department of Aging,
Administrative Managers;
8. In the Department of Public
Health, Program Coordinator for
Emergency
Preparedness,
Public
Information Officer, Lead Epidemiologist;
9. All Chiefs, Executive Assistants, and Special Assistants of the
Office of the Mayor;
10. All Directors, Assistant Directors, Deputy Directors, and Commissioners, of all departments;
11. Clerk of Council; and
12. Such other positions in the several departments that are identified
by the appointing authority and
approved by the Civil Service Comas
requiring
adequate
mission
response times to emergencies and
disasters..
2. In Section 1, at Section 171.66
Residency Requirements, after section “(b)”, insert new sections “(c)”
and “(d)” to read as follows:
(c) No officer or employee of the
City shall, in any way, falsify or
misstate verbally or in writing on
any application, paper, document or
form, which relates to his or her
employment with the City, that the
officer or employee is a resident of
the State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
or adjacent counties when in fact he
or she is not a bona fide resident of
the State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
or adjacent counties.
(d) The provisions of this section
shall not apply to any officer or

employee on the payroll of the City
of Cleveland on the first effective
date of this section who remains
employed with the City of Cleveland.
3. Re-letter existing sections (c)
and (d) to “(e) and (f)”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1639-12.
By Council Members Zone, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into a Concession Agreement
with the Family Soccer League for
the operation of a concession building at Zone Recreation Center, for
the Department of Public Works, for
a period of one year, with one option
to renew for an additional year,
exercisable by the Director of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Properties, and Recreation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 124-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
McGregor Foundation for the Economic Security Project for Cleveland
Seniors 2013-2014 Program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Health and Human
Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 126-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health and

23
the Academy of Educational Development for the 2013 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program; and to enter
into contract with various agencies
to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 164-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 141.38 relating to contracts with the State of Ohio to
receive reimbursement under the
Medicaid Administrative Claiming
(MAC) Program for the Department
of Public Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Legislation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Res. No. 1067-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
West 25th Place and Keene Court
S.W.
Ord. No. 192-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1725-12,
passed December 3, 2012 relating to
Moral Claims.
Without objection, Resolution No.
1067-12 and Ordinance No. 192-13 were
relieved of further consideration of
all committees and laid on the table
pursuant to Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17, Nays 0. Resolution No. 1067-12
and Ordinance No. 192-13 Laid on the
Table.

APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 2013
(SECOND READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCE)
ORDINANCE NO. 170-13
Ord. No. 170-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Thirty Eight Million, Nine Hundred Forty Thousand, Seven Hundred Seventy Two
Dollars ($538,940,772), from the General Fund;
The sum of Seventy Four Million, Seven Hundred One Thousand, Thirty Dollars ($74,701,030) from the Special
Revenue Funds;
The sum of Thirty Million, One Hundred Eighty Eight Thousand, Seven Hundred Fourteen Dollars ($30,188,714)
from the Internal Service Funds;

331

The City Record

24

March 6, 2013

The sum of Six Hundred Thirty One Million, Two Hundred Forty Thousand, Eight Hundred Eighty Nine Dollars ($631,240,889) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Ten Million, Two Hundred Ninety Six Thousand, Sixty Five Dollars ($10,296,065) from the Trust
and Agency Funds;
The sum of Fifty Nine Million, Four Hundred Forty Eight Thousand, Two Hundred Six Dollars ($59,448,206)
from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Human Resources
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Community Development
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental

$

7,170,178
39,545,833

13,240,565
1,115,075
2,067,412
9,436,026
14,900,917
5,517,038
311,719,856
71,234,320
295,868
10,337,933
1,643,646
50,716,105
———————
$ 492,224,761
———————
———————
$ 538,940,772
———————
———————

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

74,701,030
30,188,714
631,240,889
10,296,065
59,448,206
———————
$1,344,815,676
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2013

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

7,170,178

5,204,431
1,965,747
———————
$
7,170,178
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

21,774,347

$

14,284,965

$

3,486,521

$ 19,149,395
2,624,952

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,239,703
5,045,262

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,338,886
147,635
———————
$
39,545,833
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,471,041
115,310

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,064,697
593,281

332

$

2,586,351

$

4,657,978

March 6, 2013

The City Record

25

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

191,246
4,306

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

118,401
12,230

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

199,876
15,376

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

627,839
706,323

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,183,005
50,629

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,475,140
82,739

$

7,682

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

485,256
20,778

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

784,702
30,708

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

195,552

$

130,631

$

215,252

$

1,334,162

$

1,233,634

$

1,557,879

$

7,682

$

506,034

$

815,410

———————
$ 13,240,565
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,115,075

866,320
248,755
———————
$
1,115,075
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

2,067,412

1,346,866
720,546
———————
$
2,067,412
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

9,436,026

6,705,123
2,730,903
———————
$
9,436,026
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

966,298
289,839

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,393,288
636,590

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,464,400
1,654,554

333

$

1,256,137

$

2,029,878

$

4,118,954

26

The City Record

March 6, 2013

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

481,235
94,791

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

678,943
41,283

Bureau of Internal Audit
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

546,881
555,246

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,296,379
21,839

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,995,120
1,784,231

$

576,026

$

720,226

$

1,102,127

$

1,318,218

$

3,779,351

———————
$ 14,900,917
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

616,306
334,164

Division of Health
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,875,810
1,258,672

Division of Environment
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

829,110
207,698

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

114,178
281,100

$

950,470

$

3,134,482

$

1,036,808

$

395,278

———————
$
5,517,038
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$171,390,342
9,348,138

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 83,498,900
3,483,295

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 21,548,323
2,741,575

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

4,427,833

3,000,440
1,427,393
$ 180,738,480

$

$

86,982,195

$

24,289,898

$

1,367,167

$

13,914,283

960,275
406,892

$ 10,805,764
3,108,519
———————
$ 311,719,856
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

334

$
$

2,850,215
203,128

3,053,343

The City Record

March 6, 2013

27

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,452,066
3,864,597

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,187,226
40,840

Division of Property Management
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,790,008
6,521,712

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

8,670,730
4,534,595

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.
Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

12,316,663

$

1,228,066

$

12,311,720

$

13,205,325

$

25,377,513

$

3,741,690

$ 14,284,059
11,093,454

$

2,770,516
971,174
———————
$ 71,234,320
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Department of Community Development Director’s Office
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
283,303
I.
II.
Other Expenses
12,565
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

$

295,868

———————
$
295,868
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Director’s Office
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,664,513
952,522

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,936,615
202,034

Division of Construction Permitting
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,565,924
16,325

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

2,617,035

$

6,138,649

$

1,582,249

———————
$ 10,337,933
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,643,646

1,628,425
15,221

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
1,643,646
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses
Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

1,561,000

1,561,000
$

17,722,049

$

31,433,056

$ 17,722,049
$ 31,433,056
———————
$ 50,716,105
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 492,224,761
———————
———————
$ 538,940,772
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

335

The City Record

28

March 6, 2013

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$

38,811,272

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 15,544,663
Other Expenses
11,733,095
II.

$

27,277,758

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,175,000

$

7,437,000

$

8,039,218
30,772,054

$

1,175,000

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
Other Expenses
$
II.

7,437,000
———————
$ 74,701,030
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

1,042,793

$

6,581,306

$

19,637,720

$

2,333,962

$

592,933

191,292
851,501

Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

1,336,933
5,244,373

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,738,353
13,899,367

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

845,937
1,488,025

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

129,202
463,731
———————
$ 30,188,714
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,507,041
804,331

$

562,036
2,924,328

$

3,192,298
567,272

Radio
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

336

$

3,311,372

$

3,486,364

$

3,759,570

$ 261,758,799
$ 84,338,708
177,420,091
$

22,561,000

$ 11,248,990
11,312,010
$ 183,420,000
$ 30,709,730
152,710,270
———————
$ 478,297,105
———————
———————

The City Record

March 6, 2013

29

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 139,375,331
$ 32,850,806
106,524,525
———————
$ 139,375,331
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,241,155
458,556

$

1,699,711

Golf Course Fund
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

32,136
301,295

$

333,431

$

7,821,979

$

2,538,783

Division of Convention Center & Stadium - West Side Market
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
432,979
I.
II.
Other Expenses
701,570

$

1,134,549

Division of Property Management - East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses
$

$

40,000

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

1,268,777
6,553,202

Division of Convention Center
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

1,101,478
1,437,305

$

40,000
———————
$ 13,568,453
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 631,240,889
———————
———————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

10,296,065

6,553,997
3,742,068
———————
$ 10,296,065
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$

59,448,206

$ 59,448,206
———————
$ 59,448,206
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. — Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. — Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2012 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2013 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums
appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2013 and shall be subject to the
control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. — Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. —
Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be made except
as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. hat this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed by
law.

337

The City Record

30

March 6, 2013

Schedule of Changes
(Published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter)
The following changes are made to provide for reductions/increases in various departments of City Government: to correct the total of the 2013 Appropriation Ordinance No. 170-13
2013 Mayor’s Estimate Ordinance

DIFFERENCE

GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Department of Aging
Department of Public Safety
Department of Building and Housing
Nondepartmental
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

0
92,372
176,441
50,000
72,973
175,000
474,414
566,786
———————
566,786
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2013

GENERAL FUND
JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
II.
Other Expenses

(175,000)
(175,000)

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

267,372
249,372
18,000
———————
92,372
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

176,441
76,441
100,000
———————
176,441
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Division of Animal Control Services
II.
Other Expenses

50,000
50,000
———————
50,000
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir. Office
II.
Other Expenses

52,000

52,000

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

20,973

20,973

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

———————
72,973
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

175,000
175,000
———————
175,000
———————
———————
474,414
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

566,786
———————
———————

Ordinance No. 170-13 is herein published following the Public Hearing and before the third reading and final
passage and reflects the necessary amendments required by this schedule.

338

The City Record

March 6, 2013
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Mitchell, seconded by Council Member Zone and unanimously carried
that the absence of Council Member
Kevin Conwell and Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:47 p.m. to meet on Monday, March
18, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

31

Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Five Point Partners, LLC, based
upon its proposal dated June 8, 2012,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for
furnishing
of
the
services
described in the proposal for an
aggregate fee of $4,096,000.00, and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Five Point Partners,
LLC for the above-mentioned services is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANT

WORK
PERCENTAGE

DS Management Group,
Inc.
Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

$ 22,400.00
0.547%

Verto and Associates, LLC $ 97,750.00
2.386%

THE CALENDAR
TieBridge, Inc.
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
February 27, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 27,
2013 at 10:40 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Others: Natoya Walker-Minor, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
D. Midgett, Acting Commissioner,
Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 81-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
389-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 7, 2012,
Five Point Partners, LLC is selected from a list of firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities as
the firm to be employed by contract
to provide managing services and
professional services necessary to
manage and administer the Oracle
Customer Care & Billing System,
including the necessary support,
maintenance, monitoring, upgrades,
enhancements, and related services
to support the billing system, for a
period of three years with an option
to renew for two additional one-year
terms, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.

$ 22,400.00
0.547%

RNRConsulting(CSB/MBE) $212,800.00
5.195%
Om Consulting Group, LLC
(CSB/MBE)
$168,000.00
4.102%
Brite Systems, Inc.
(sub-consultant to
Om Consulting Group,
LLC (CSB/MBE))
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 82-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of McWane Inc. dba Kennedy Valve for an estimated quantity
of
fire
hydrants
and
fire
hydrant parts, items 1-24, 28, 30 and
31, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods and services, received
on November 9, 2012 under the
authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$5,295,375.00 (2%, 30 Days, Net 31
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the

339

estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 83-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of HD Supply Waterworks,
Ltd. for an estimated quantity of
fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts,
item 25, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods and services, received
on November 9, 2012 under the
authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$90,000.00 (0%, Net 30 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 84-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Ferguson Enterprises,
Inc. dba Ferguson Waterworks for
an
estimated
quantity
of
fire
hydrants and fire hydrant parts,
item 26, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods and services, received
on November 9, 2012 under the
authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$90,000.00 (0%, Net 30 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or ser-

32
vices, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 85-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of McWane, Inc. dba Clow
Valve Company for an estimated
quantity of fire hydrants and fire
hydrant parts, item 27, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years
starting upon the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods and
services, received on November 9,
2012 under the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $90,000.00 (2%, 30
Days, Net 31 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 86-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of East Jordan Iron Works,
Inc. dba EJ USA, Inc. for an estimated quantity of fire hydrants and
fire hydrant parts, item 29, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
and services, received on November
9, 2012 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $90,000.00
(0%, Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor

The City Record
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 87-13.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on November 9,
2012 for an estimated quantity of
fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts,
items 32-35, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, under the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 88-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1588-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
November 30, 2009, the firm of Leo
A. Daly (“Consultant”), is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control as the
firm of consultants available to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to design the public improvement of rehabilitating the terminal
ticketing lobby at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for the
Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract with Leo A. Daly for the abovementioned services, based upon its
proposal dated November 30, 2012,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
that the compensation to Leo A.
Daly for the services authorized
shall not exceed $696,069.00, and
shall contain such other provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following sub-consultants by Leo A. Daly is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Sub-consultant

Van Auken Akins
Architects, LLC 32.40% - CSB/FBE
$225,555.00

340

March 6, 2013
McGuiness Unlimited,
Inc.
3.17%- CSB/FBE
$22,040.00
Solar Testing Laboratories,
3.51%- CSB
Inc.
$ 24,400.00
C & S Engineers, Inc.

Westlake, Reed,
Leskosky

Non-Certified
$ 46,763.00

Non-Certified
$ 84,640.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 89-13.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 815-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 351-12, adopted July
18, 2012, the City through its Director of Port Control, entered into Contract No. PS2012*211 with R. W.
Armstrong & Associates, Inc. “Consultant”), to provide professional
services necessary to provide general engineering and architectural services for a period of one year, with
three one-year options to renew, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
the need for additional design services related to the General Engineering Design Services Control
with the
assignment of a Task
Order for the Terminal Boiler Replacement Project at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated September
6, 2012 to perform the additional
work necessary; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a first modification
to
City
Contract
No.
PS2012*211 between the City of
Cleveland and R. W. Armstrong &
Associates,
Inc.
for
additional
design services related to the General Engineering Design Services
Contract through a task order for
the Terminal Boiler Replacement
project at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Be it further resolved that the
amounts attributed to the following
subconsultants approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 351-12, adopted July 18, 2012, are amended as follows:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

G&T Associates, Inc.

3.0% DBE
$15,000.00

H2L1 Engineering, Inc.

3.0% DBE
$15,000.00

Jacobsen/Daniels
Associates LLC

2.0% DBE
$10,000.00

The City Record

March 6, 2013
McGuiness Unlimited, Inc. 3.0% DBE
$15,000.00
Somat Engineering, Inc.

3.0% DBE
$15,000.00

Suhail & Suhail, Inc.

3.0% DBE
$15,000.00

subconsultants approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 548-12, adopted October 24, 2012, are amended as
follows:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

Van Auken Akins
Architects, LLC

Consulting Engineering,
Inc.
3.0% DBE
$15,000.00
G&T Associates, Inc.

Solar Testing
Laboratories, Inc.

3.0% Non-DBE
$15,000.00

Be it further resolved that the following additional subconsultant to
R.W. Armstrong & Associates, Inc.
under Contract No. PS2012*211 is approved:
Subconsultant

Professional Balance
Company

Percentage
Amount

2.0% Non-DBE
$10,000.00

Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 351-12
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 90-13.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 710-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 548-12, adopted October 24, 2012, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. PS2012*295 with
R.W. Armstrong & Associates, Inc.
(“Consultant”), to provide professional services necessary to design
and provide Construction Management Services for the Runway 6L24R Safety Area and related facilities at Burke Lakefront Airport in
order to comply with mandatory
Federal
Aviation
Administration
standards (“Services”), for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control; and
Whereas, to City has determined
the need for additional design services related to the Runway 6L-24R
Safety Area and related facilities at
Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated January 20,
2012 to perform the additional work
necessary; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a first modification
to
City
Contract
No.
PS2012*295 between the City of
Cleveland and R. W. Armstrong &
Associates, Inc. for additional design services related to the Runway
6L-24R Safety Area and related facilities at Burke Lakefront Airport.
Be it further resolved that the
amounts attributed to the following

33

6.15% DBE
$150,000.00
11.47% DBE
$280,000.00

McGuiness Unlimited, Inc. 3.69% DBE
$ 90,000.00
Somat Engineering, Inc.

Suhail & Suhail, Inc.

Michael Baker
Corporation

.61% DBE
$ 15,000.00
2.46% DBE
$ 60,000.00

1.23% Non-DBE
$30,000.00

Solar Testing
Laboratories

14.34% Non-DBE
$350,000.00

Be it further resolved that the following additional 2nd tier subconsultant to R. W. Armstrong & Associates,
Inc.
under
Contract
No.
PS2012*295 is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

2nd Tier Sub-Consultant:
Ohio TestBor, Inc.
(Somat Engineering DBE)

Precision Analytical, Inc.
(Somat Engineering DBE)

.41%
$10,000.00

.20%
$ 5,000.00

Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 548-12
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 91-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Coleman Spohn Corporation, for the public improvement of
renovating and upgrading the air
handling system and chilled water
system
and
boiler
replacement
phase 1 in the South Terminal at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, base bid and Item 13 as
alternate number 3, for the Department of Port Control, received on
January 3, 2013 under the authority
of Ordinances No. 359-05 and 814-12,
respectively passed by the Cleveland City Council May 2, 2005 and
June 4, 2012, upon a unit basis for
the improvement, in the aggregate
amount of $798,100.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest respon-

341

sible bid; and the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
public improvement contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the
following subcontractors by Coleman Spohn Corporation, is approved:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

North Electric, Inc. 2.368% - CSB/MBE
$ 18,900.00
Superior Insulation
Company

15.034% - CSB
$119,990.00

Clark Mechanical,
Inc.
3.132% - CSB/MBE
$ 25,000.00
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 92-13.
By Director Butler.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of FLIR Commercial Systems, except for such
terms and conditions as are unacceptable to the Director of Law, for
the purchase of a Gas Detection
(Thermal Imaging) Camera for the
Division of Air Quality, received on
January 23, 2013, under the authority of Ordinance No. 564-12, passed
June 8, 2012, which on the basis of
the
quantity
would
amount
to
$101,360.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Health is requested to enter into contract for such
items.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 93-13.
By Director Flask.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 135.06, Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Board
of Control Resolution No. 504-12,
adopted October 3, 2012, the Director
of Public Safety was authorized to
enter into a contract with Schwarz
Uniform Corporation for the purchase of various items of Uniform
Clothing Supplies, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 504-12
stated that the contract shall provide for an initial order, to be certified in an amount not less than
$301,902.50; and
Whereas, the Department of Public Safety did not wish to purchase
any uniform clothing supplies immediately upon execution of the contract and the Director of Public
Safety has been advised that there

34
is no legal requirement for an initial purchase order upon execution
of the requirement contract; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 504-12, adopted by
this Board on October 3, 2012, approving the bid of Schwarz Uniform
Corporation as the lowest and best
bid for various items of Uniform
Clothing Supplies, is amended by
deleting “which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$301,902.50” where appearing in the
resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 504-12
not expressly amended above shall
remain unchanged and in full force
and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 94-13.
By Director Flask.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1606-07, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on October
15, 2007, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Public Safety, entered into an agreement with
Intergraph Corporation, City Contract No. 67549, for a period of one
year with two options to renew for
an additional one-year period, for
maintenance and technical support
services for the Computer-Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System, for
the Divisions of Police, Fire, and
EMS, Department of Public Safety;
and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, enhancements, and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Intergraph Corporation to obtain the
professional maintenance and technical support services necessary to
maintain the Computer-Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System for
one year starting January 1, 2013
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., the compensation to be paid for
maintenance and technical support
services to be performed under the
agreement with Intergraph Corporation is fixed at an amount not to
exceed $354,068.00.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

The City Record

March 6, 2013

Resolution No. 95-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Nerone & Sons, Inc.
(CSB/LPE) for the public improvement of Brookside Station Utility
Duct Improvements, for Base Bid
Items A, B and C and Optional Items
1 and 2 for the Division of Architecture and Site Development, Department of Public Works, received
on January 18, 2013, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 533-12,
passed on June 4, 2012, upon a gross
price basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $88,000.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Department of Public Works is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
following
subcontractor
by
the
Nerone & Sons, Inc. (CSB/LPE) for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Coleman Spohn
(CSB/MBE)

$16,250.00
18.466%

Krusoe Sign

$

525.00
0.597%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 96-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Envirocom Construction, Inc. for the public improvement
of Cleveland Public Auditorium Historic Interior Door Improvements,
for the Base Bid Items A and B and
Optional Items 2 and 3 for the Division of Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works, received on January 18, 2013,
under the authority of Ordinance
Nos. 684-08, passed on July 2, 2008,
upon a gross price basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $60,400.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Department
of Public Works is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Envirocom Construction, Inc. for the
aforementioned public improvement
is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Tucker, Grubbs
Construction (CSB/MBE)

342

$ 2,300.00
3.808%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 97-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. W. Clark Co., Inc.
(CSB/LPE), for the public improvement of Ceiling Improvements at
Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center, for Base Bid Items A and B and
Optional Items 4 and 5 for the Division of Architecture and Site Development, Department of Public Works,
received on January 18, 2013, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 53312, passed on June 4, 2012, upon a
gross price basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$24,890.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid; and
the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
W. Clark Co., Inc. (CSB/LPE) for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

LB Construction
(CSB/MBE)

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

$12,350.00
49.618%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 98-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-30-011 located at 3343 East
65th Street in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Carmen D. Johnson has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed

The City Record

March 6, 2013
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community Development,
and the Mayor is requested, to execute an Official Deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland,
with Carmen D. Johnson for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 125-30-011 located at 3343
East 65th Street, according to the
Land
Reutilization
Program
in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Acting Directors WalkerMinor, Thornton, Directors Fumich
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

35

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-26: 3148 West 14th
Street (Ward 3)
Sandy Banks LLC, owner, appeals
to establish use as a veterinary practice / animal clinic in a storefront
space of an existing one-story building, located on an 87.33' x 127.16'
parcel in a D2 Local Retail Business
District; subject to the restrictions
under Section 343.01(b)(2)(G) the
proposed use is not permitted and
permitted first pursuant to Section
343.11(b)(2(G in a General Retail
District; and by the regulations
under Section 349.05(a), no parking
spaces shall be located within 10
feet of any wall of a residential
building or structure if such wall
contains a ground floor opening
designed to provide light or ventilation; and a 6 foot wide landscaped
transition strip providing 50% year
round opacity is required at the rear
property line where it abuts a MultiFamily Residence District in accordance with Sections 352.08-12 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-28: 1519 East 172nd
Street (Ward 11)
Maquella Jackson, owner, appeals
to use a single family residence as
a Type A Day Care on a 33' x 115'
parcel in a B1 Two-Family District;
and by the regulations under Section 337.03(b, the proposed use is
permitted only if it is 30 feet from
an adjoining premises and only if
approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals after public notice and
hearing to determine if adequate
yard space and other safeguards to
preserve the character of the neighborhood are provided, and in in the
judgment of the Board, such buildings and uses are appropriately
located and designed and will meet
a community need without adversely affecting the neighborhood.
Notice of Violation
Calendar No. 13-30: 1260 East 61st
Street (Ward 7)
Jimmie Richard appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and disputes the decision rendered by the City of Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau
Waste Collection and Photo Safety
Division on February 14, 2013 and
the violation information described
on Civil Infraction Ticket Number
WC00126672, issued December 7, 2012
for the property located at 1260 East
61st Street and failure to comply
with Section 551.111(B) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
4, 2013, the following appeals were

343

scheduled
Board.

for

hearing

The following
PROVED:

appeal

before

was

the

AP-

Calendar No. 13-07: 8300 Hough
Avenue
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health
Services appealed to erect an illuminated double faced message center pole sign in a C1 Multi-Family
District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 13-21: 3702 Oak Park
Avenue
Marcello Silvestri appealed to erect
a 13' x 30' one-story accessory
garage to an existing 24'- 6" x 30'
gable garage in an A1 One-Family
District.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-18: 6114 Francis
Avenue, aka 2969 East 61st Street
postponed to April 15, 2013.
Calendar No. 13-19: 14805 St. Clair
Avenue postponed to April 1, 2013.
Calendar No. 13-20: 3069 West 25th
Street scheduled for March 11,
2013 postponed to May 28, 2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on February 25, 2013 were
adopted and approved on March 4,
2013:
The following appeals were APPROVED:
Calendar No. 13-14: 914 East 200th
Street
Rite Management Corporation appealed to build a car dealership on
a corner acreage parcel in a C1
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 13-16: 11890 Fairhill
Road
Benjamin Rose Real Estate LLC
appealed to erect four (4) 8'x 5'x 6'
high, double faced ground signs in
an E1 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-17: 1934 St. Clair
Avenue
Ray and Lisa Ferguson, owners,
and
Pete
Leneghan,
prospective
lessee,
appealed
to
establish
a
wagon and horse stable in a C2
Semi-Industry District.
The
NIED:

following

appeal

was

DE-

Calendar No. 13-12: 8006 Townsend
Avenue
Dionne Sanford appealed to use a
basement in a single family dwelling for a Type A Day Care in a C1
Multi-Family District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on October 8, 2012 was adopted and approved on March 4, 2013:
The following
PROVED:

appeal

was

AP-

The City Record

36
Calendar No. 12-153: 2717 Lorain
Avenue
Hansa Import House, Inc. and
Boris Music appealed to change use
of a retail store to include a brewery for products sold or consumed
on the premises only and a restaurant including outdoor patios in a
C3 Local Retail Business District;
subject to conditions.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on February 19, 2013 was
adopted and approved on March 4,
2013:
The following
PROVED:

appeal

was

AP-

Calendar No. 12-167: 598 East 185th
Street
JTWIL, LLC appealed to change
use from storage to a facility for
motor vehicle washing and detailing
on a corner parcel in C1 Local
Retail Business and A1 One-Family
District; subject to conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
February 27, 2013
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-257-12.
RE: Appeal of Maxies E. Morrell, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence One &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3652 Independence Road from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 12,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-311-12.
RE: Appeal of Joyce M. Thompson, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer Property located on the premises known as 12501

Farringdon Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated October 17, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-318-12.
RE: Appeal of Cheryl P. Leece,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses —
Multiple Uses In One Building Two
Story Masonry Walls/Wood Floors
Property, located on the premises
known as 3450 West 105th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated October
16, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to submit plans to rehabilitate the
property, the tenant is permitted to
stay in the property under the
described conditions, which is that
no hazards surround the tenant
area, and that all the utilities are
available to the tenant, the property is REMANDED at the end of the
ninety (90) days to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action should the plans not be
accepted and approved by the City.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-319-12.
RE: Appeal of Roosevelt Smith Jr.,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 6912 Berwick
Road
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated November 20, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to submit plans, as the
photographs described, within two
(2) weeks and to complete abatement of the violations within six (6)
months; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Maschke.

344

March 6, 2013
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-320-12.
RE: Appeal of Cuauhtémoc C. Barragan, Owner of the Residential
Property, located on the premises
known as 6919 Elton Avenue, from
a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS,
dated December 7, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to begin abatement of the violations,
noting that with satisfactory progress additional time can be granted by the inspector. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-321-12.
RE: Appeal of JP Morgan Chase
Bank for U.S. Bank, Owner of the
Two Dwelling Units Two-Family
Residence Two & One/half Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 818 East 117th
from
a
CONDEMNATION
Street
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated August 14, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued, but issued to the wrong
party, and that the City acknowledges that U.S. Bank is not the property owner and was improperly notified; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-322-12.
RE: Appeal of Bank of America,
Mortgagee of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 7913 Maryland
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated November 8, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to immediately clean the debris, two
(2) weeks to obtain all required per-

The City Record

March 6, 2013
mits, and thirty (30) days in which
to complete abatement of all violations, noting that failure to meet
either date will result in the property being REMANDED immediately; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-306-12.
RE: Appeal of James E. Ferko,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
8909
Bancroft
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated November 2, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time and to
REMAND the property to the Department of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action, Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None..
*    *    *
Docket A-323-12.
RE: Appeal of Jeff Colvin/Colvin
Construction, Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 8421 Rosewood Avenue
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated November
18, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain permits and submit a rehabilitation
plan
to
the
Building
Department, and six (6) months, per
the rehabilitation plan, in which to
complete abatement of the violations, noting that additional time
may be granted, by the inspector, if
progress is satisfactory; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-324-12.
RE: Appeal of Dewayne C. Morrison, Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence One Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 10701 Reno

Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE &
GARAGE, dated November 14, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to obtain all required permits within two (2) weeks, and to
complete abatement of the violations within ninety (90) days, the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Hous-ing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-325-12.
RE: Appeal of Chanley Leffel,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit SinResidence
One
Story
gle-Family
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 1370 West 95th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLA—
EXTERIOR
MAINTETION
NANCE, dated November 14, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant one hundred-twenty (120)
days in which to complete abatement of the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-326-12.
RE: Appeal of Erick Walton, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story
Frame Property located on the premises known as 830 Whitcomb Road,
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
November 18, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and required further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-327-12.
RE: Appeal of Trell Productions,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as

345

37
1132 East 72nd Street from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS, dated
July 12, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant a ninety (90) day Extension of Time in which to begin
working on the violations, noting
that additional time may be granted by the inspector, if satisfactory
progress is being made; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision an any required
further action.. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-328-12.
RE: Appeal of Anthony Konopinski, Owner of the B Business —
Offices,
Laboratories,
and
Adult
School One Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
8123
Brunner
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated November 13, 2012
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-329-12.
RE: Appeal of North Collinwood
Farm C/O Angela Cavotta, Owner of
the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two & One/half Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 19429 Nottingham Road from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated February 3, 2012 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations, with the understanding that
the property must remain debris
free and safe during that period of
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

The City Record

38
Docket A-330-12.
RE: Appeal of Mike Pahdureviv,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3480 West 120th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 3, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-331-12.
RE: Appeal of International Union
of Operating Engineers, Local 18,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 3600 Euclid
Avenue, from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
ELEVATOR,
dated
November 29, 2012 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
and must be abated; the Appellant
is granted thirty (30) days in which
to obtain the required permits and
decommission the elevator, and obtain a final inspection as required;
the property is REMANDED to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-332-12.
RE: Appeal of Dwain A. Summerville, Owner of the Two Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence
Two Story Frame Property, located
on the premises known as 3481 East
99th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated November 20, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued based upon the testimony and
photographic evidence, the request
for additional time is DENIED, noting that no work has been done on
the property, it is in very poor condition, and the Appellant was not
present for the hearing; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Hous-

ing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-336-12.
RE: Appeal of Midfirst Bank,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
2349 East 88th Street from a CONORDER
—
MAIN
DEMNATION
STRUCTURE, dated November 27,
2012 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain all required permits and
ninety (90) days in which to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

March 6, 2013
ance to allow the windows to be
rebuilt with glass as requested, noting that this building is a one story
building and the building next door
is solid masonry adjacent to the
windows.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-57-13.
RE: Appeal of WXZ Development,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 1641 East
118th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated January 31,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required to permit the Appellant’s design to be pursued for
issues in Item Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 5 on
the Adjudication Order, noting that
the City concurs with the unusual
architectural configurations of the
building and find that the owners
request is reasonable. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-20-13.
RE: Appeal of Tyconnie Taylor,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 11827 Mt. Overlook Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated December 17, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations, with additional time
if the progress is satisfactory; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

Docket A-63-13.
RE: Appeal of United TwentyFifth Building, LLC, Owner of Property, located on the premises known
as 2144 West 25th Street from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated February 19, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for March 13, 2013.

*    *    *
Docket A-50-13.
RE: Appeal of Lisa Ferguson
(Shamrock Stables), Owner of the
Property, located on the premises
known as 1934 St. Clair Avenue from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated
February 6, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the vari-

346

*    *    *
EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-82-12 — Anthony Taylor
— 3450 East 119th Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant six (6)
months in which to complete abatement of the violations, noting that
progress is being made; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-261-12 — Ferrell Okie Lee
(Deceased) C/O Artistine Beavers
Cunningham
—
2980
East
81st
Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant thirty (30)
days in which to abate the nuisance;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building

March 6, 2013

The City Record

and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________

*    *    *
AMENDED RESOLUTION
Docket A-312-12 — Dennis W. Heil
C/O Harold DeRaud Kurman — 3418
Bader Avenue:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant thirty (30)
days in which to obtain permits and
six (6) months in which to abate the
violations; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-285-12 — Interstate Dev. Ltd.
Partnership.
A-296-12 — 3160 West 33rd Street
LLC.
A-301-12—Martin Slawinski.
A-302-12—Ubaldo Ocasio Sr.
A-303-12—Orville Strickland.
A-304-12—QBYRDS, LLC.
A-306-12—James E. Ferko.
A-307-12—Ioan E. Veronica Toader.
A-309-12—Danielle McDonald.
A-310-12—Sterling Management.
A-312-12—Dennis W. Heil (AMENDED).
A-313-12 — University Settlement,
Inc.
A-315-12—Geoffrey Griffin.
A-316-12—Caraman Corporation.
A-39-13—Menlo Park Academy.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, March 13, 2013
1:30 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, March 13, 2013, at 1:30
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 603-11.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height District of land
located on the north and south sides
of Hough Avenue between E. 55th
Street and E. 75th Street to MultiFamily Residential District, a ‘D’
Area District and a ‘2’ Height District(Map Change No. 2362, Sheet
Numbers 4 & 5).
Ord. No. 68-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Mount Olivet Church of God
in Christ (formerly the Second German Reformed Church) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 130-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance designating
the
Starr
Piano-Gennett
Records Building as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Ord. No. 163-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance designating the May Company Building
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Ord. No. 195-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance designating the Fairmont Creamery Company Ice Cream Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):

Phyllis E. Cleveland, Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
February 27, 2013 and March 6, 2013

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

February 13, 2013

For All Departments

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.

*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

347

39
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
the
following
notice
advertised,
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013
File No. 38-13 — Constructing &
Installing Replacement Sewers
and Rehabilitating and Repairing
Sewers at Various Locations, for
the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.292 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2013 AT
10:30 A.M. LOCATED AT THE
DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 40-13 — Ontario Street
Sewer Rehabilitation Project (ReBid), for the Division of Water

The City Record

40
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 740-08, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 9, 2008.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2013 AT
11:30 A.M. LOCATED AT THE
DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
February 27, 2013 and March 6, 2013
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2013
File No. 35-13 — Purchase of 145 kV
Outdoor 3 Pole SF6; 1200 AMP
63KA Power Circuit Breakers for
Ridge Road Substation, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 556-08, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 9,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. LOCATED AT TOM L.
JOHNSON BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 39-13 — Gooding Avenue
Sewer Replacement Project (ReBid), for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 815-11, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 20, 2011.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. LOCATED AT THE
DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of

Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
February 27, 2013 and March 6, 2013
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013
File No. 36-13 — Purchase of 145 kV
Outdoor SF6 Power Circuit Breakers for Harvard Substation, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 556-08, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 9,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANPRE-BID
MEETING
DATORY
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. LOCATED AT TOM L.
JOHNSON BUILDING, 1300 LAKEAVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
SIDE
OHIO 44114.
February 27, 2013 and March 6, 2013
THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 2013
File No. 37-13 — Purchase of Distribution Transformers and Accessories, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.26 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. LOCATED AT TOM L.
JOHNSON BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 41-13 — Labor and Materials for Plumbing Repairs and or
to Replace Plumbing Equipment,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 630-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 6, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2013 AT 2:30
P.M.
LOCATED
AT
TOM
L.
JOHNSON BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
February 27, 2013 and March 6, 2013
FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2013
File No. 42-13 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and
Maintain Plate Trucks (Re-Bid),
for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2013 AT 10:00
A.M. LOCATED AT THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL, WPC RED CONFER-

348

March 6, 2013
ENCE
ROOM,
12302
KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
February 27, 2013 and March 6, 2013
THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 2013
File No. 43-13 — Estabrook Recreation Center Roof Improvements,
for the Division of Architecture
and Site Development, Department
of Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 533-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
*THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 AT
10:30 A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
ARCHITECTURE
AND
SITE
DEVELOPMENT, ROOM 517A, 601
AVENUE,
CLEVELAKESIDE
LAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 44-13 — Thomas McCafferty Health Center HVAC Improvements, for the Division of Architecture and Site Development,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 53312, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
*THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
ARCHITECTURE
AND
SITE
DEVELOPMENT, ROOM 517A, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.

March 6, 2013
File No. 45-13 — Cory Recreation
Center Exterior and HVAC Improvements, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development, Department of Public Works,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
533-12, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 4,
2012.
*THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANPRE-BID
MEETING
DATORY
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
AND
SITE
ARCHITECTURE
DEVELOPMENT, ROOM 517A, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only
registered
Plan
Holders
will
receive Addenda. Bids cannot be
accepted from Bidders who only
purchase plans from other entities such as Plan Rooms and/or
who fail to register to be on the
City of Cleveland Plan Holders
List.
March 6, 2013 and March 13, 2013
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 2013
File No. 46-13 — Harvard Substation
Project, for the Division of Architecture and Site Development,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 55608, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 9, 2008.
*THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
ONE
HUNDRED
FIFTY DOLLARS ($150.00) ONLY
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the
Office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only
registered
Plan
Holders
will
receive Addenda. Bids cannot be
accepted from Bidders who only
purchase plans from other entities such as Plan Rooms and/or
who fail to register to be on the
City of Cleveland Plan Holders
List.
March 6, 2013 and March 13, 2013

The City Record
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 231-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution supporting the application from McCormack Baron Salazar to the Ohio Housing Finance Agency for the use of
low-income housing tax credits.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
housing tax credits for affordable
housing developments throughout
Ohio using a competitive proposal
process; and
Whereas, McCormack Baron Salazar is proposing to redevelop 183
apartment units for Phase I of Lexington Village in Cleveland’s the
Hough neighborhood; and
Whereas, 46 apartment units will
be market rate, 119 apartment units
will be affordable to households
whose annual income is at or below
60% of the area median income; and
Whereas, 18 of these apartment
units will be affordable to households whose annual income is at or
below 30% of the area median
income; and
Whereas, McCormack Baron Salazar’s proposal will benefit the citizens of the City of Cleveland by
maintaining the forward momentum
of the Hough neighborhood; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports the application from
McCormack Baron Salazar to the
Ohio Housing Finance Agency for
the use of low-income housing tax
credits.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Richard Baron,
Chairman
and
CEO,
McCormack
Baron Salazar.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Res. No. 255-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 1938 Euclid
Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 136-13, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of a D5 Liquor Permit
to Bar One II LLC, 1938 Euclid
Avenue, Suite #100, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 0435551 by
Resolution No. 136-13, adopted by the
Council on January 28, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and

349

41
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of Liquor License of a D5
Liquor Permit to Bar One II LLC,
1938 Euclid Avenue, Suite #100,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 0435551, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 136-13, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Res. No. 256-13.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 4643
Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Salina, Inc.,
DBA Broadway Deli, 4643 Broadway
Avenue, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44127, Permanent Number 76857450005
to Abuauna, Inc., DBA Broadway
Deli, 1st Floor LLC, DBA Broadway
Deli, 4643 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, Permanent Number
0036900; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

42
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Salina, Inc.,
DBA Broadway Deli, 4643 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, Permanent
Number
76857450005
to
Abuauna, Inc., DBA Broadway Deli,
4643 Broadway Avenue, 1st Floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127, Permanent
Number 0036900; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Res. No. 257-13.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership and
location of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 10202 Sophia Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from GDMG & J
Corp., DBA Toms Market & Deli,
7401-05 Central Avenue & Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 2977262 to R T Dversified,
Inc., DBA Families Corner Store,
10202 Sophia Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 7569721;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health

The City Record
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of ownership and location of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit from GDMG &
J Corp., DBA Toms Market & Deli,
7401-05 Central Avenue & Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 2977262 to R T Dversified,
Inc., 10202 Sophia Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
7569721, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Res. No. 258-13.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2 and D2X Liquor Permit at 9203
Kinsman Avenue, and repealing
Resolution No. 1077-12, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2 and D2X Liquor
Permit to Ossie, Inc., DBA Kinsman
Shell, 9203 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6591675 by Resolution No. 1077-12,
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

350

March 6, 2013
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2 and D2X Liquor
Permit to Ossie, Inc., DBA Kinsman
Shell, 9203 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
6591675, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 107712, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Res. No. 259-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15518
St. Clair Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1093-12, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to Palsun, Inc., DBA Convenient
Express,
15518
St.
Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number 6665197 by Resolution No. 1093-12, adopted by the
Council on August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Palsun, Inc., DBA Convenient
Express, 15518 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 6665197, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1093-12, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

March 6, 2013
Res. No. 260-13.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Sweeney, Pruitt, Zone, Cummins,
Kelley, Polensek, Reed, Brady, Miller, Dow, Mitchell, Brancatelli, Cimperman, K. Johnson, J. Johnson,
Cleveland, Conwell and Keane.
An emergency resolution urging
Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to restore cuts to
local municipal funds that are burdening already dwindling municipal
budgets, and to implement a more
equitable funding policy that will
allow Ohio’s municipalities to cover
the costs of providing city services.
Whereas, an overwhelming number of State cuts and policy changes
in recent years have burdened local
municipal budgets that are already
dwindling; and
Whereas, Governor Kasich has cut
the annual Local Government Fund
to municipalities across the state,
and to the City of Cleveland by over
40%,
from
$47,268,239
in
2010’s
budget to only $28,586,079 in 2013;
and
Whereas, the reduction in the
Local Government Fund has greatly
hurt cities and smaller communities
across Ohio that have relied on this
funding source for the past eighty
years to assist in covering the cost
of providing city services; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will lose an estimated $28,078,228 in
total tax revenues and local government funds that will negatively
impact the City’s financial health;
and
Whereas, estate taxes to the City
of Cleveland have decreased from
$3,351,022 in 2010 to a projected
1,500,000 in 2013, and will be eliminated completely in 2014 due to
State policy; and
Whereas, tangible personnel property tax has fallen from $928,684 in
2010 to a projected $14,663 in 2013
and 2014; and
Whereas, the CAT tax has also
decreased from $5,661,517 in 2010 to
only a projected $101,701 in 2013 and
2014 budgets; and
Whereas, despite already dwindling resources for local municipal
budgets, Representatives Grossman
and Henne introduced House Bill 5
in the Ohio General Assembly on
January
30,
2013
that
proposes
sweeping changes to administration
and revenue generating capabilities
of the municipal income tax; and
Whereas, this Council opposes HB
5 along with the Ohio Municipal
League, as numerous areas of the
bill will result in significant revenue loss to local municipalities and
promote state administration over
local control; and
Whereas, Governor Kasich is promoting such policies at a time when
local governments around the state
are being forced to reduce basic services, lay off safety personnel, raise
taxes, and sell off assets just to
compensate for the reductions in
state funding; and
Whereas, recognizing the burden
placed on local municipalities by
recent state policies, Representatives Cera and Gerberry, along with
Northeastern Ohio cosponsors Foley,
Antonio,
and
Hagan
introduced
House Bill 17 in the Ohio General
Assembly also on January 30, 2013
that proposes restoring to the Local

The City Record
Government Fund the same proportion of state tax revenue that the
Fund received in the fiscal year
2005 for the fiscal year 2014 and
each fiscal year thereafter; and
Whereas, this Council supports
HB 17 and urges the Ohio General
Assembly to pass this bill to restore
needed revenue to local municipal
budgets for the benefit of local tax
payers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to restore cuts to
local municipal funds that are burdening already dwindling municipal
budgets, and to implement a more
equitable funding policy that will
allow Ohio’s municipalities to cover
the costs of providing city services.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit certified
copies of this resolution to members
of the Northeast Ohio delegation,
Governor John Kasich, and members
of the Ohio General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 252-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Economic Development to enter
into an agreement with Invermere
Throckley Development, LLC for the
Dollar General 3785 Lee Road Project through the use of Ward 1
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Invermere Throckley Development, LLC for the Dollar
General 3785 Lee Rd Project for the
public purpose of providing new job
creation in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

351

43
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 253-13.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Economic Development to enter
into an agreement with the Little
Italy Redevelopment Corporation for
a Feasibility Planning and Marketing Study on the Mayfield Theatre
Project through the use of Ward 9
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation for a feasibility planning and marketing
study for the Mayfield Theatre Project located at 12218 Mayfield Road
for the public purpose of stimulating economic development activity
in the City of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Capital
Fund.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 254-13.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Merrick
House for the After School/Summer
Youth Program through the use of
Ward
14
Neighborhood
Capital
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

44
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Merrick House
for the After School/Summer Youth
Program for the public purpose of
providing educational and recreational activities to youth residing
in the City of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 261-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Max Hayes School
Run, on April 21, 2013, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Max Hayes School
Run, on April 21, 2013, start:
Max
Hayes High School, south on West
45th to Franklin; west on Franklin
to West 52nd; south on West 52nd to
Lorain; west on Lorain to West 53rd;
south on West 53rd to West 55;
south on West 55th to Clark; turn
around and return same route to
finish — Max Hayes High School;
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 262-13.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Hermes Cleveland 10
Miler, on April 27, 2013, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Hermes Cleveland
10 Miler, on April 27, 2013, start:
Edgewater Park, exit park west up
bike path to West Blvd; south on
West Blvd to Lake; Lake west to
West 117th into the City of Lakewood; returning from Lakewood
east on Lake to Detroit; east on
Detroit to West 76th; north on West
76th to Father Caruso Dr.; east on
Father Caruso to Tunnel to Edgewater park and finish; provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 263-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the United Cerebral Palsy
of Greater Cleveland Run, on April
21, 2013, sponsored by Hermes Sports
& Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves

352

March 6, 2013
the holding of the United Cerebral
Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run, on
April 21, 2013, start: at the United
Cerebral Palsy office (10011 Euclid
Avenue), Euclid east to East 105th;
East 105th north to MLK; MLK
north to Superior ramp; turn around
and return same route to finish; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 264-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Providence House
Annual City to City Run, on April
28, 2013, sponsored by the Hermes
Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Providence House
Annual City to City Run sponsored
by the Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc., on April 28, 2013, start: Huron
and West 2nd; Huron to Superior;
Superior across Veterans Memorial
Bridge to Detroit; Detroit to West
28th; West 28th to Fulton; Fulton to
West 32nd; West 32nd to Lorain;
cross Lorain (turn around) return
same route to finish; provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

March 6, 2013
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 265-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society Walk, on April 13,
2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society Walk, on April 13,
2013, start: Browns Stadium Erieside
to East 9th; East 9th to Huron;
Huron to Superior; Superior to West
6th; West 6th to St. Clair; St. Clair
to West 3; West 3rd to Al Lernerway; finish in Browns Stadium; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 266-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Annual Diversity Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run, on
May 4, 2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves

The City Record
the holding of the Annual Diversity
Center of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run,
on May 4, 2013, start: Erieside at
Rock Hall of Fame to East 9th; East
9th to North Marginal; North Marginal to Burke Airport Loop Drive;
Loop Drive to North Marginal; North
Marginal to East 9th; East 9th to
Lakeside; Lakeside to West 3rd;
West 3rd to St. Clair; St. Clair to
West 9th; West 9th to West Lakeside; West Lakeside to West 3rd;
West 3rd to Erieside to finish; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 267-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 173412 passed December 3, 2012 as it pertains to the Broadway School of
Music and Arts for the Fine Arts
Program
through
the
use
of
Ward(s) 12, 3 and 5 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1734-12 passed December
3, 2012 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $37,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No(s). 10 SF 166 and 10
SF 188.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance Number 1734-12 passed December 3, 2012 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

353

45
Ord. No. 268-13.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1397-12 passed October 3,
2012 as it pertains to the African
American Music Association, Inc for
the Basketball Education and Recreation Program through the use of
Wards 18, and 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1397-12
passed October 3, 2012 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the African American Music
Association or its designee the Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation for the Basketball Education
and Recreation Program through
the use of Ward(s) 18 and 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the African American Music Association, Inc. or its
designee the Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation effective March
1, 2013 for the Basketball Education
and Recreation Program for the public purpose of providing educational
and recreational activities for City
of Cleveland youth through the use
of Wards 18, and 1 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1397-12
passed October 3, 2012 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 269-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the annual St. Malachi
Run, on March 16, 2013, sponsored by
the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the
holding
of
the
annual
St.

The City Record

46
Malachi Run sponsored by the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc., on March
16, 2013, start: Washington west to
West 25th; West 25th South to Detroit/Superior Bridge; Detroit/Superior Bridge East to West 9th; West
9th North to St. Clair; St. Clair East
to West 3rd; West 3rd North to
Erieside; Erieside East to Burke
Airport; turn around within Burke
Airport Loop; return same route; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

Ord. No. 270-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Grace Missionary Baptist Church to
stretch eight banners on East 131st

Street from Bartlett Avenue to Svec
Avenue for the period from April 1,
2013 to April 30, 2013, inclusive,
announcing the church’s 50th Anniversary.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Capital Projects is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Grace Missionary
Baptist Church to install, maintain
and remove banners at East 131st
from Bartlett Avenue to Svec Avenue, for the period from April 1, 2013
to April 30, 2013, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Capital Projects, in consultation with the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

March 6, 2013
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 25, 2013.
Effective February 28, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 4, 2013
11:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson, Keane,
Polensek, Sweeney. Authorized Absence: Pruitt.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized Absence: Brancatelli, Pruitt.
Pro tempore: Reed.
Tuesday, March 5, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: CANCELLED.
Wednesday, March 6, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Polensek, Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Zone. Authorized Absence: Conwell, Chair; Miller, Mitchell.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair; Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek,
Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Conwell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Economic Security Project For Cleveland Seniors 2013-2014 Program — Grant —
McGregor Foundation (O 124-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Agreements
After School/Summer Youth Program — Merrick House (Ward 14 NCF) (O 254-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Amend Ord. No. 1397-12 — Basketball Education And Recreation Program — African American
Music Association, Inc (Ward(S) 18, 01 NEF) (O 268-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Amend Ord. No. 213-13 — Western Reserve Land Conservancy dba Thriving Communities Institute —
professional service — Evaluate the impact of abandonment and foreclosure in Cuy.
Co. and strategies for market recovery through demolition (O 321-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1734-12 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School Of Music And
Arts (Ward(s) 12, 03, 05 NEF) (O 267-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Dollar General — Lee Rd., 3785 — Invermere Throckley Development, Llc. (Ward 01 NCF)
(O 252-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Mayfield Theatre Project — Little Italy Redevelopment Corp. — Feasibility Planning and
Marketing Study (Ward 09 NCF) (O 253-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

354

March 6, 2013

The City Record

47

AIDS
Federal Aids Prevention Program, 2013 — Academy of Educational Development — Health
Department — Ohio Department of Health (O 126-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Banks
Urging The President of Charter One Bank to reconsider the closing of two Charter
One Branches located at 13709 Lorain Ave. & 11623 Clifton Ave. (Ward(s) 16, 18) (R 332-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Banners
Grace Missionary Baptist Church — East 131st. (From Bartlett Ave. To Svec Ave.) — April
1 To April 30 — Grace Missionary Baptist Church 50th Anniversary (Ward 02)
(O 270-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 354

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
Amend Ord. No. 1397-12 — Basketball Education And Recreation Program — African American
Music Association, Inc (Ward(s) 18, 01 NEF) (O 268-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Bader Avenue, 3418, (Ward 13) — Dennis W. Heil, c/o Harold DeRaud Kurman, owner — appeal
amended and adopted on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-312-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bancroft Avenue, 8909, (Ward 2) — James E. Ferko, owner — appeal adopted on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-306-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Berwick Road, 6912, (Ward 5) — Roosevelt Smith, Jr., owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-319-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brunner Avenue, 8123, (Ward 12) — Anthony Konopinski, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-328-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dudley Avenue, 7407, (Ward 15) — Caraman Corporation, c/o George Caraman, owner — appeal
adopted on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-316-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th Street, 818, (Ward 9) — JPMorgan Chase Bank for U.S. Bank, owner — appeal
resolved on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-321-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1641, (Ward 9) — WXZ Development, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-57-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 3450, (Ward 6) — Anthony Taylor, owner — extension of time granted on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-82-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 72nd Street, 1132, (Ward 7) — Trell Productions, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-327-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street, 2980, (Ward 5) — Ferrell Okie Lee, (Deceased), c/o Artistine Beavers
Cunningham, owner — extension of time granted on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-261-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 88th Street, 2349, (Ward 6) — MidFirst Bank, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-336-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 99th Street, 3481, (Ward 6) — Dwain A. Summerville, owner — appeal resolved on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-332-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elton Avenue, 6919, (Ward 15) — Cuauhtemoc C. Barragan, owner — appeal resolved on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-320-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 18201, (Ward 10) — Interstate Development Limited Partnership, owner —
appeal adopted on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-285-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 3600, (Ward 8) — International Union of Operating Engineers, Local
18, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-331-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Farringdon Avenue, 12501, (Ward 4) — Joyce M. Thompson, owner — appeal resolved on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-311-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ferris Avenue, 12715, (Ward 2) — Danielle McDonald, owner — appeal adopted on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-309-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Road, 3652, (Ward 12) — Maxies E. Morrell, owner — appeal resolved on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-257-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marston Avenue, 12917, (Ward 2) — QBYRDS, LLC, c/o Quiana Grair, owner — appeal adopted
on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-304-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maryland Avenue, 7913, (Ward 2) — Bank of America, mortgagee — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-322-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Overlook Avenue, 11827, (Ward 6) — Tyconnie Taylor, owner — appeal resolved on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-20-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nelson Avenue, 9402, (Ward 2) — Geoffrey Griffin, owner — appeal adopted on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-315-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19429, (Ward 11) — North Collinwood Farm, c/o Angela Cavotta, owner —
appeal resolved on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-329-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pershing Avenue, 5084, (Ward 5) — Martin Slawinski, owner — appeal adopted on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-301-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

355

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347

The City Record

48

Pratt Avenue, 9712, (Ward 2) — University Settlement, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-313-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reno Avenue, 10701, (Ward 2) — Dewayne C. Morrison, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-324-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rosewood Avenue, 8421, (Ward 2) — Jeff Colvin/Colvin Construction, owner — appeal
resolved on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-323-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 1934, (Ward 3) — Lisa Ferguson (Shamrock Stables), owner — appeal
resolved on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-50-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 14440, (Ward 19) — Menlo Park Academy, owner — appeal adopted on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-39-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walker Avenue, 9001, (Ward 2) — Orville Strickland, owner — appeal adopted on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-303-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 105th Street, 3450, (Ward 17) — Cheryl P. Leece, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-318-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 107th Street, 1467, (Ward 17) — Ioan E. Veronica Toader, owner — appeal adopted on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-307-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Street, 1215, (Ward 3) — Sterling Management, owner — appeal adopted on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-310-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 120th Street, 3480, (Ward 17) — Mike Pahdureviv, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-330-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2144, (Ward 3) — United Twenty-Fifth Building, LLC, owner — appeal
rescheduled to 3/13/13 on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-63-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 33rd Street, 3160, (a.k.a. 3160 St. Rocco’s Court), (Ward 14) — 3160 West 33rd
Street, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 2/27/13 (Doc. A-296-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 46th Street, 3150, (Ward 15) — Ubaldo Ocasio, Sr., owner — appeal adopted on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-302-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 95th Street, 1370, (Ward 17) — Chanley Leffel, owner — appeal resolved on 2/27/13
(Doc. A-325-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whitcomb Road, 830, (Ward 11) — Erick Walton, owner — appeal resolved on
2/27/13 (Doc. A-326-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 6, 2013

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 345

Board of Control — Air Quality Division
Camera, gas detection (thermal imaging) — per Ord. 564-12 to FLIR Commercial Systems —
Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 92-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
Brookside Station Utility Duct improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 95-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Ceiling improvements at Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center — per Ord. 533-12
to R.W. Clark Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 97-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Public Auditorium Historic Interior Door improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Envirocom
Construction, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 96-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Construction management services and design for Runway 6L-24R Safety Area — modify
Contract #PS2012*295 per BOC Res. 548-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 90-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Air handling system and chilled water system and boiler upgrades — per Ord. 359-05,
814-12 to Coleman Spohn Corporation — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 91-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341
Design services for Terminal Ticketing Lobby rehabilitation — per Ord. 1588-09 to Leo A.
Daly — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 88-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 65th Street, 3343 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-30-011 — Carmen D. Johnson (BOC Res. 98-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Emergency Medical Service Division
Computer Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System maintenance and technical support —
Contract #67549 per Ord. 1606-07 — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Fire Division
Computer Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System maintenance and technical support —
Contract #67549 per Ord. 1606-07 — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

356

March 6, 2013

The City Record

49

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 65th Street, 3343 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-30-011 — Carmen D. Johnson
(BOC Res. 98-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 12)
East 65th Street, 3343 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-30-011 — Carmen D. Johnson
(BOC Res. 98-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Police Division
Computer Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System maintenance and technical support —
Contract #67549 per Ord. 1606-07 — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Uniform clothing supplies — amend BOC Res. 504-12 — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Air handling system and chilled water system and boiler upgrades — per Ord. 359-05,
814-12 to Coleman Spohn Corporation — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (BOC Res. 91-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Construction management services and design for Runway 6L-24R Safety Area — modify
Contract #PS2012*295 per BOC Res. 548-12 — Division of Burke Lakefront Airport
(BOC Res. 90-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design services for Terminal Ticketing Lobby rehabilitation — per Ord. 1588-09 to Leo A.
Daly — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 88-13) . . . . . . .
Engineering, planning and design services — modify Contract #PS2012*211 per BOC
Res. 351-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 89-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Computer Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System maintenance and technical support —
Contract #67549 per Ord. 1606-07 — Division of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical
Service, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Construction management services and design for Runway 6L-24R Safety Area — modify
Contract #PS2012*295 per BOC Res. 548-12 — Division of Burke Lakefront Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 90-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design services for Terminal Ticketing Lobby rehabilitation — per Ord. 1588-09 to Leo A.
Daly — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 88-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering, planning and design services — modify Contract #PS2012*211 per BOC
Res. 351-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 89-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System manage and support services — per Ord. 389-12 to
Five Point Partners, LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 81-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
Historic Interior Door improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Envirocom Construction, Inc. —
Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 96-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Camera, gas detection (thermal imaging) — per Ord. 564-12 to FLIR Commercial Systems —
Division of Air Quality (BOC Res. 92-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Air handling system and chilled water system and boiler upgrades — per Ord. 359-05,
814-12 to Coleman Spohn Corporation — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 91-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookside Station Utility Duct improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. —
Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 95-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ceiling improvements at Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center — per Ord. 533-12
to R.W. Clark Co., Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 97-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Auditorium Historic Interior Door improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Envirocom
Construction, Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 96-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

357

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

The City Record

50

March 6, 2013

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Computer Aided Dispatch System and Mobile System maintenance and technical support —
Contract #67549 per Ord. 1606-07 — Division of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical
Service (BOC Res. 94-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Uniform clothing supplies — amend BOC Res. 504-12 — Division of Police (BOC Res. 93-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bids rejected — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 87-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to East Jordan Iron Works,
Inc., dba EJ USA, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 86-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson Enterprises,
Inc., dba Ferguson Waterworks — Division of Water (BOC Res. 84-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd.
Division of Water (BOC Res. 83-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to McWane, Inc.,
dba Clow Valve Company — Division of Water (BOC Res. 85-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to McWane, Inc., dba Kennedy
Valve — Division of Water (BOC Res. 82-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System manage and support services — per Ord. 389-12 to
Five Point Partners, LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 81-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Brookside Station Utility Duct improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to Nerone & Sons, Inc. —
Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 95-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Ceiling improvements at Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center — per Ord. 533-12
to R.W. Clark Co., Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development
(BOC Res. 97-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Public Auditorium Historic Interior Door improvements — per Ord. 684-08 to Envirocom
Construction, Inc. — Division of Architecture and Site Development
(BOC Res. 96-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to East Jordan Iron Works,
Inc., dba EJ USA, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 86-13) . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson Enterprises,
Inc., dba Ferguson Waterworks — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 84-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 83-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to McWane, Inc.,
dba Clow Valve Company — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 85-13)
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to McWane, Inc., dba Kennedy
Valve — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 82-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing supplies — amend BOC Res. 504-12 — Division of Police, Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 93-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Camera, gas detection (thermal imaging) — per Ord. 564-12 to FLIR Commercial Systems —
Division of Air Quality, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 92-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Board of Control — Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center
Ceiling improvements — per Ord. 533-12 to R.W. Clark Co., Inc. — Division of Architecture
and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 97-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342

Board of Control — Water Division
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bids rejected — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 87-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to East Jordan Iron Works,
Inc., dba EJ USA, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 86-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson Enterprises,
Inc., dba Ferguson Waterworks — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 84-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

358

March 6, 2013

The City Record

Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd.
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 83-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to McWane, Inc.,
dba Clow Valve Company — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 85-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to McWane, Inc., dba Kennedy
Valve — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 82-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System manage and support services — per Ord. 389-12 to
Five Point Partners, LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 81-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

51
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
East 185th Street, 598, (Ward 11) — JTWIL, LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/4/13 (Cal. 12-167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 200th Street, 914, (Ward 11) — Rite Management Corporation, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairhill Road, 11890, (Ward 6) — Benjamin Rose Real Estate, LLC, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Francis Avenue, 6114, (a.ka. 2969 East 61st Street), (Ward 12) — Elizabeth Baptist
Church, owner — appeal postponed to 4/15/13 on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 8300, (Ward 7) — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, owner —
appeal heard on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 2717, (Ward 3) — Hansa Import House, Inc., owner and Boris Music — appeal
granted and adopted on 3/4/13 (Cal. 12-153) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oak Park Avenue, 3702, (Ward 13) — Marcello Silvestri, owner — appeal dismissed on 3/4/13
(Cal. 13-21) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 14805, (Ward 10) — East 131 Church of God in Christ, owner —
appeal postponed to 4/1/13 on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 1934, (Ward 3) — Ray and Lisa Ferguson, owners and Pete Leneghan,
prospective lessee — appeal granted and adopted on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1810, (Ward 3) — NWW, LLC, owner and Tom Gillespie — appeal denied and
adopted on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3069, (Ward 14) — Patrick Moran, owner — appeal postponed to 5/28/13
on 3/4/13 (Cal. 13-20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 172nd Street, 1519, (Ward 11) — Maquella Jackson, owner — appeal to be heard
on 3/18/13 (Cal. 13-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
East 61st Street, 1260, (Ward 7) — Jimmie Richard, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/18/13
(Cal. 13-30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
West 14th Street, 3148, (Ward 3) — Sandy Banks, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
3/18/13 (Cal. 13-26). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343

Bonds
Refunding and Remarketing — Core City Program Bonds (O 312-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Stadium Nontax Revenue Bonds (O 313-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2013- current expenses and other expenses — Finance Department
(O 170-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330-331

Capital Projects
City To City Run — permit — April 28th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 264-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diversity Center Of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — permit — May 4th (Ward 03)
(O 266-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grace Missionary Baptist Church — banners — East 131st. (From Bartlett Ave. to Svec Ave.)
April 1 to April 30 — Grace Missionary Baptist Church 50th Anniversary (Ward 02)
(O 270-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 27th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward(s)
15, 16) (O 262-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Max Hayes School Run — permit — April 21st — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15)
(O 261-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — April 13th (Ward 03) (O 265-13). . . . . . .
St. Malachi Run — permit — March 16th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(O 269-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

359

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353

The City Record

52

March 6, 2013

United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — permit — April 21st. — Hermes Sports &
Events, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 263-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Urban Community Schools Run — permit — May 11th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 324-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
West 25th Place And Keene Court S.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 1067-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

City of Cleveland Bids
Circuit breakers, 145 kV outdoor for Harvard Sub-Station — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 556-08 — bid due March 27, 2013
(advertised 2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Circuit breakers, 145 kV outdoor for Ridge Road Sub-Station — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 556-08 — bid due March 22, 2013
(advertised 2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Cory Recreation Center exterior and HVAC improvements — Department of Public Works —
Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 533-12 — bid due March
28, 2013 (advertised 3/6/2013 and 3/13/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
Estabrook Recreation Center roof improvements — Department of Public Works — Division of
Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 533-12 — bid due March 28, 2013 (advertised
3/6/2013 and 3/13/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Gooding Avenue Sewer Replacement Project (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 815-11 — bid due March
22, 2013 (advertised 2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Harvard Substation Project — Department of Public Works — Division of Architecture and
Site Improvement — per Ord. 556-08 — bid due April 11, 2013 (advertised 3/6/2013 and 3/13/2013) . . . . . . . . . . 349
Ontario Street Sewer Rehabilitation Project (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 740-08 — bid due March 21, 2013 (advertised
2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Plumbing repairs and equipment — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per Ord. 630-11 — bid due March 28, 2013 (advertised 2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Sewers, construct, install, replacement and repair — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.292 — bid due March 21,
2013 (advertised 2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Thomas McCafferty Health Center HVAC improvements — Department of Public Works — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 533-12 — bid due March 28, 2013
(advertised 3/6/2013 and 3/13/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Transformers, distribution and accessories — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due March 28, 2013 (advertised
2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Trucks, plate, repair and maintain (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due March 29, 2013 (advertised
2/27/2013 and 3/6/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348

City Planning Commission
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Fairmont Creamery Company Ice Cream Bldg. — W. 17th St., 2306-62 and Willey Ave., 1702-26 —
PPN 004-05-001 / 002/ 020/ 021/ 022/ 023/ 024 — designate as landmark (Ward 03)
(O 195-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark (Ward
08) (O 319-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
(Ward 07) (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
May Company Building — Euclid Ave., 158 — 216 and Prospect Ave., 105-205 — PPN 101-26-028 —
designate as landmark (Ward 03) (O 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Mount Olivet Church Of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 68-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 12) (O 320-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Starr Piano-Gennett Records Building — Huron Rd., 1222-24 — PPN 101-37-021 — designate
as landmark (Ward 02) (O 130-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
West 25th Place and Keene Court S.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects
(Ward 03) (R 1067-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

360

March 6, 2013

The City Record

53

Clerk of Council
Amend Ord. No. 213-13 — Western Reserve Land Conservancy dba Thriving Communities Institute —
professional service — agreement — Evaluate the impact of abandonment
and foreclosure in Cuy. Co. and strategies for market recovery through demolition
(O 321-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Cleveland State University (CSU)
CSU Historic Tax Credits — Restoration of the Mather Mansion — Euclid Ave., 2605 (Ward
08) (R 322-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section(s) 551.01, 551.991 and Enact New Section 551.114 — Dumpster Placement and
Time Limit (O 315-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Enact New Section 141.38 — Medicaid Administrative Claiming (MAC) Program — Health
Department (O 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Enacting New Section 171.66 — Relating to Residency Requirements
(O 545-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330

Community Development
After School/Summer Youth Program — Agreement — Merrick House (Ward 14 NCF)
(O 254-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Amend Ord. No. 1397-12 — Basketball Education and Recreation Program — African American
Music Association, Inc (Ward(s) 18, 01 NEF) (O 268-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353

Concession Agreements
Public Works — Family Soccer League — Zone Recreation Center (Ward 15)
(O 1639-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Condolences
King, Arentha Ann (R 333-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Toles, Mary Louise Mills (R 334-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312

Congratulations
Owens, Ronnie M. (R 335-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Tatum, Elder Dr. Larry D. (R 336-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312

Contracts
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1734-12 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School of Music And
Arts (Ward(s) 12, 03, 05 NEF) (O 267-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Enact New Section 141.38 — Medicaid Administrative Claiming (MAC) Program — Health
Department (O 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair —
Water Division (O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323

Economic Development Department
Dollar General — Lee Rd., 3785 — Invermere Throckley Development, Llc — Agreement (Ward
01 NCF) (O 252-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Mayfield Theatre Project — Agreement — Little Italy Redevelopment Corp. —
Feasibility Planning and Marketing Study (Ward 09 NCF) (O 253-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Finance Department
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1725-12 — Authorize Payment (O 192-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Appropriations — Year 2013- current expenses and other expenses (O 170-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330-331
Refunding and Remarketing — Core City Program Bonds (O 312-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 2 — Amend Ord. 1689-11 — Human Resources Department
(O 323-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Stadium Nontax Revenue Bonds (O 313-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317

361

The City Record

54

March 6, 2013

Grants
Economic Security Project For Cleveland Seniors 2013-2014 Program — Mc Gregor Foundation
(O 124-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Federal Aids Prevention Program, 2013 — Academy of Educational Development — Health
Department — Ohio Department of Health (O 126-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Health Department
Enact New Section 141.38 — Medicaid Administrative Claiming (MAC) Program (O 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2013 — Academy of Educational Development — Ohio
Department of Health (O 126-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Human Resources Department
Enacting New Section 171.66 — Relating to Residency Requirements (O 545-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 2 — Amend Ord. 1689-11 — Finance Department
(O 323-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Landmark Commission
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 316-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairmont Creamery Company Ice Cream Bldg. — W. 17th St., 2306-62 and Willey Ave., 1702-26 —
PPN 004-05-001 / 002/ 020/ 021/ 022/ 023/ 024 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03)(O 195-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 319-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May Company Building — Euclid Ave., 158 — 216 and Prospect Ave., 105-205 — PPN 101-26-028 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Olivet Church Of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward
08) (O 68-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starr Piano-Gennett Records Building — Huron Rd., 1222-24 — PPN 101-37-021 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 130-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 11) (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 324

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 326

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 05) (R 256-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 3226 — new application (Ward 14) (F 331-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., 4995-97 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal —
repeal Res. 1030-12 (Ward 14) (R 325-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st., 720 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1223-12 (Ward 10)
(R 326-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 770 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1123-12 (Ward 11)
(R 327-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 11473 — transfer of location application (Ward 09) (F 330-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1415 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 309-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1938 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 136-13
(Ward 08) (R 255-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Ave., 9203 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1077-12 (Ward 06)
(R 258-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4149 — new application (Ward 19) (F 311-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sophia Ave., 10202 — objection to transfer of ownership and location (Ward 04) (R 257-13)
St. Clair Ave., 10301-05 — stock transfer application (Ward 08) (F 310-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 15518 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1093-12 (Ward
11) (R 259-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sycamore St., 2014 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 328-13). . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1278 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 329-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West St. Clair Ave., 824 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 308-13) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

350
311
350
311

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

350
311
311
311

Merrick House
After School/Summer Youth Program — agreement (WARD 14 NCF) (O 254-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Moral Claims
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1725-12 — authorize payment — Finance Department (O 192-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

362

March 6, 2013

The City Record

55

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Amend Ord. No. 1397-12 — Basketball Education and Recreation Program — African American
Music Association, Inc (Ward(s) 18, 01 NEF) (O 268-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1734-12 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School of Music And
Arts (Ward(s) 12, 03, 05 NEF) (O 267-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal Aids Prevention Program, 2013 — Academy Of Educational Development — Health
Department (O 126-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Ohio General Assembly
Urging Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to restore cuts to local Municipal
Funds (R 260-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Ohio House Finance Agency
Support McCormack Baron Salazar — OHFA Application — Lexington Village Phase 1 (Ward 07)
(R 231-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349

Permits
Grace Missionary Baptist Church — banners — East 131st. (From Bartlett Ave. to Svec Ave.) —
April 1 to April 30 — Grace Missionary Baptist Church 50th Anniversary (Ward 02)
(O 270-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 354
St. Malachi Run — March 16th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 269-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — April 21st. — Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc. (Ward 07) (O 263-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — April 13th (Ward 03) (O 265-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Max Hayes School Run — April 21st — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15) (O 261-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — April 27th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward(S) 15, 16)
(O 262-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
City To City Run — April 28th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 264-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Diversity Center Of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — May 4th (Ward 03) (O 266-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Urban Community Schools Run — May 11th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 324-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Professional Services
Amend Ord. No. 213-13 — Western Reserve Land Conservancy dba Thriving Communities Institute —
professional service — agreement — Evaluate the impact of abandonment
and foreclosure in Cuy. Co. and strategies for market recovery through demolition
(O 321-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Public Hearing (Notices)
Fairmont Creamery Company Ice Cream Bldg. — W. 17th St., 2306-62 and Willey Ave., 1702-26 —
PPN 004-05-001 / 002/ 020/ 021/ 022/ 023/ 024 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03)(O 195-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
May Company Building — Euclid Ave., 158 — 216 and Prospect Ave., 105-205 — PPN 101-26-028 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Mount Olivet Church Of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward
08) (O 68-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Starr Piano-Gennett Records Building — Huron Rd., 1222-24 — PPN 101-37-021 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 130-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347

Public Works
Amend Section(s) 551.01, 551.991 and Enact New Section 551.114 — Dumpster Placement and
Time Limit (O 315-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Concession Agreement — Family Soccer League — Zone Recreation Center (Ward 15)
(O 1639-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

363

The City Record

56

March 6, 2013

Races
St. Malachi Run — permit — March 16th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 269-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — permit — April 21st. — Hermes Sports &
Events, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 263-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — April 13th (Ward 03) (O 265-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Max Hayes School Run — permit — April 21st — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 15)
(O 261-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 27th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward(s)
15, 16) (O 262-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
City To City Run — permit — April 28th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 264-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Diversity Center Of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — permit — May 4th (Ward 03) (O 266-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Urban Community Schools Run — permit — May 11th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 324-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Recognition
National Women And Girls HIV/AIDS Awareness Day (R 337-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312

Recreation Centers
Public Works — concession agreement — Family Soccer League — Zone Recreation Center (Ward
15) (O 1639-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Resolution of Support
CSU Historic Tax Credits — Restoration of the Mather Mansion — Euclid Ave., 2605 (Ward
08) (R 322-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Support McCormack Baron Salazar — OHFA Application — Lexington Village Phase 1 (Ward 07)
(R 231-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
Urging Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to restore cuts to local Municipal
Funds (R 260-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Urging Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to restore cuts to local Municipal
Funds (R 260-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Urging The President Of Charter One Bank to reconsider the closing of two Charter
One Branches located at 13709 Lorain Ave. & 11623 Clifton Ave. (Ward(s) 16, 18)
(R 332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Salaries
Salary And Wage Schedules — Section 2 — Amend Ord. 1689-11 — Finance Department — Human
Resources Department (O 323-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328

Stadium
Stadium Nontax Revenue Bonds (O 313-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317

State Of Ohio
Enact New Section 141.38 — Medicaid Administrative Claiming (MAC) Program — Health
Department (O 164-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Urging Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to restore cuts to local Municipal
Funds (R 260-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Street Vacation
West 25th Place and Keene Court S.W. — Intention To Vacate A Portion — Capital Projects —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 1067-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Tax Credits
CSU Historic Tax Credits — Restoration of the Mather Mansion — Euclid Ave., 2605 (Ward
08) (R 322-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Support McCormack Baron Salazar — OHFA Application — Lexington Village Phase 1 (Ward 07)
(R 231-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349

364

March 6, 2013

The City Record

57

Utilities Department
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair —
Water Division (O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323

Ward 01
Amend Ord. No. 1397-12 — Basketball Education AND Recreation Program — African American
Music Association, Inc (Ward(s) 18, 01 NEF) (O 268-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Dollar General — Lee Rd., 3785 — Invermere Throckley Development, Llc — agreement (Ward
01 NCF) (O 252-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
King, Arentha Ann — Condolence (R 333-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Tatum, Elder Dr. Larry D. — Congratulations (R 336-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Toles, Mary Louise Mills — Condolence (R 334-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312

Ward 02
Grace Missionary Baptist Church — banners — East 131st. (From Bartlett Ave. to Svec Ave.) —
April 1 to April 30 — Grace Missionary Baptist Church 50th Anniversary
(O 270-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 354
Starr Piano-Gennett Records Building — Huron Rd., 1222-24 — PPN 101-37-021 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 130-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347

Ward 03
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1734-12 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School of Music And
Arts (Ward(s) 12, 03, 05 NEF) (O 267-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
City To City Run — permit — April 28th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(O 264-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Diversity Center Of Northeast Ohio Walk/Run — permit — May 4th (O 266-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Euclid Ave., 1415 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 309-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
Fairmont Creamery Company Ice Cream Bldg. — W. 17th St., 2306-62 and Willey Ave., 1702-26 —
PPN 004-05-001 / 002/ 020/ 021/ 022/ 023/ 024 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 195-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
May Company Building — Euclid Ave., 158 — 216 And Prospect Ave., 105-205 — PPN 101-26-028 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 163-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — April 13th (O 265-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Sheehan, Andrew and Roberts, Ian — Commendation (R 338-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
St. Malachi Run — permit — March 16th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 269-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Sycamore St., 2014 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
(F 328-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
Urban Community Schools Run — permit — May 11th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(O 324-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
West 25th Place and Keene Court S.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects —
City Planning Commission (R 1067-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
West 9th St., 1278 — transfer of location application — liquor permit
(F 329-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
West St. Clair Ave., 824 — transfer of location application — liquor permit
(F 308-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311

Ward 04
Sophia Ave., 10202 — objection to transfer of ownership and location — liquor permit
(R 257-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350

Ward 05
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1734-12 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School of Music And
Arts (Ward(s) 12, 03, 05 NEF) (O 267-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 256-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
National Women And Girls HIV/AIDS Awareness Day — Recognition (R 337-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312

Ward 06
Kinsman Ave., 9203 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1077-12 — liquor permit
(R 258-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350

365

The City Record

58

March 6, 2013

Ward 07
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 603-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Support McCormack Baron Salazar — OHFA Application — Lexington Village Phase 1
(R 231-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
United Cerebral Palsy of Greater Cleveland Run — permit — April 21st. — Hermes Sports &
Events, Inc. (O 263-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

Ward 08
Cleveland Masonic Temple — Euclid Ave., 3615-35 — PPN 103-07-005 / 006 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 317-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
Craig Motor Company Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3800-12 — PPN 103-08-011 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 316-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
CSU Historic Tax Credits — Restoration of the Mather Mansion — Euclid Ave., 2605 (R 322-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Euclid Ave., 1938 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 136-13 —
liquor permit (R 255-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
Fine Arts Bldg. — Euclid Ave., 3224-30 — PPN 103-06-006 / 023 — designate as landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 319-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Mount Olivet Church Of God In Christ — East 99th St., 1221-23 & Olivet Ave., 9900-12 —
PPN 109-10-082 / 083 / 175 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(O 68-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
St. Clair Ave., 10301-05 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 310-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311

Ward 09
Euclid Ave., 11473 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 330-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
Mayfield Theatre Project — agreement — Little Italy Redevelopment Corp. —
Feasibility Planning and Marketing Study (Ward 09 NCF) (O 253-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Ward 10
East 131st., 720 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1223-12 — liquor permit
(R 326-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Owens, Ronnie M. — Congratulations (R 335-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312

Ward 11
East 185th St., 770 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res 1123-12 — liquor permit
(R 327-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
St. Clair Ave., 15518 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1093-12 — liquor permit
(R 259-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School — Lake Shore Blvd., 18491 — PPN 114-13-001 — designate
as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 318-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326

Ward 12
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1734-12 — Fine Arts Program — Broadway School of Music And
Arts (Ward(s) 12, 03, 05 NEF) (O 267-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 320-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327

Ward 14
After School/Summer Youth Program — agreement — Merrick House (Ward 14 NCF)
(O 254-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Clark Ave., 3226 — new application — liquor permit (F 331-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
Denison Ave., 4995-97 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal —
repeal Res. 1030-12 — liquor permit (Ward 14) (R 325-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Ward 15
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 27th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward(s)
15, 16) (O 262-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Max Hayes School Run — permit — April 21st — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 261-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Public Works — Concession Agreement — Family Soccer League — Zone Recreation Center
(O 1639-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

366

March 6, 2013

The City Record

59

Ward 16
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler — permit — April 27th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward(s)
15, 16) (O 262-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Owens, Ronnie M. — Congratulations (R 335-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Urging The President Of Charter One Bank to reconsider the closing of two Charter
One Branches located at 13709 Lorain Ave. & 11623 Clifton Ave. (Ward(s) 16, 18)
(R 332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Ward 18
Amend Ord. No. 1397-12 — Basketball Education and Recreation Program — African American
Music Association, Inc (Ward(s) 18, 01 NEF) (O 268-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353
Owens, Ronnie M. — Congratulations (R 335-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Urging The President Of Charter One bank to reconsider the closing of two Charter
One Branches located at 13709 Lorain Ave. & 11623 Clifton Ave. (Ward(s) 16, 18)
(R 332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Ward 19
Rocky River Dr., 4149 — new application — liquor permit (F 311-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Amend Section(s) 551.01, 551.991 and Enact New Section 551.114 — Dumpster Placement and
Time Limit (O 315-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323

Water Division
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Service Connections Repair — Concrete and Tree Lawn Repair
(O 314-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323

Zoning
Hough Ave. (Between E. 55th St. & E. 75th St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 603-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347
Pershing Ave. and Interstate 77 — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 12) (O 320-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327

367

