The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

November the Twenty-Seventh, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

39

Board of Control

39

Civil Service

40

Board of Zoning Appeals

45

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
46
Public Notice

49

Public Hearings

49

City of Cleveland Bids

49

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

50

Committee Meetings

66

Index

66

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Daryl W. McGinnis, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Charles J. Bauernschmidt – Courtroom 12A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5216

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY NOVEMBER 25, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Dow.

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, November 25, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present:
Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Martin
J. Sweeney, Jay Westbrook and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief of Education Monyka S.
Price,
Chief
of
Communications
Maureen Harper, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief of
Public Affairs Natoya Walker-Minor,
and Directors Langhenry, Dumas,
Smith, Butler, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Rybka, Nichols, Brown, Fumich, and
Ambroz.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Grady Stevenson, Damascus
Road Ministries Church of God In
Christ, Cleveland, Ohio (Ward 4).
Pledge of Allegiance.

1867

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1573-13.
RE: #3506675. New License Application, D5H. Halcyon Charities, Inc.,
d.b.a Ohio City Masonic Temple, 2831
Franklin
Boulevard.
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 1574-13.
RE: #9170570. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5 D6. Uptown
Ultra Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th
Street. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 1575-13.
RE: #9016556. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3. Tasha
R. Townsend, 7702 Spafford Road.
(Ward 12). Received.
File No. 1576-13.
RE: #6609444. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1. OW10929, LLC,
d.b.a. Swift Foods Mart, 10929 St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 1577-13.
RE: #5304557. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Lotuss
Foods, Inc., d.b.a. Lotus Mini Mart,
17801 Euclid Avenue. (Ward 10).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1625-13—Mort Epstein.
Res. No. 1626-13—Eugene “Baldy”
McLemore.
Res. No. 1636-13—Sam Lucarelli.
Res. No, 1637-13—Peter Lewis.
Res. No. 1638-13—Albert J. Koehl.
Res. No. 1639-13—Loretta Jean
Hansen.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1627-13—Pernorse Hodo
(100th Birthday).
Res. No. 1628-13—Irene M. Morrow.
Res. No. 1629-13—George R. Terbrack.
Res. No. 1630-13—Lucy M. Selvaggio Stickan.

The City Record

4
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1631-13—Lebanese Independence Day — 70th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1632-13—Pierre Bejjani
(American
Lebanese
Community
Council).
Res.
No.
1633-13—Lawrence
N.
Sabe.
Res. No. 1634-13—Greg Rosenberg.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1592-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Tower City
Avenue LLC to encroach into the
public right-of-way of West Prospect
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining a valet parking area
consisting of a primary and 3 secondary canopies with columns, a
raised concrete island with 4 light
poles and flags and 4 cable light
strands stretching from the Tower
City vestibule across West Prospect
Avenue to the Tower City rotunda.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Tower City Avenue LLC., 1360
Terminal Tower, 50 Public Square,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public right-ofway of West Prospect Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining a
valet parking area consisting of a primary and 3 secondary canopies with
columns, a raised concrete island
with 4 light poles and flags and 4
cable light strands stretching from
the Tower City vestibule across West
Prospect Avenue to the Tower City
rotunda at the following location:
28' by 90' Valet Parking Area
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
of part of original two acre lot numbers 81 and 82 further described as follows:
Being a rectangular area encroaching 28 feet into the right of way and
extending northwesterly 90 feet
along the north right of way of West
Prospect Avenue approximately 179
feet northwest of the intersection of
the centerlines of West 2nd Street and
West Prospect Avenue.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).

Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1593-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with Debt
Next, LLC for professional services
necessary to assist various departments and divisions of the City with
improving its accounts receivables
management, for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Debt Next,
for
professional
in-house
LLC
accounts receivables management,
collection and consulting services
necessary to collect amounts and
claims owed to the various departments and divisions of the City government.
Section 2. That the compensation to
be paid for the services shall be a contingent fee, the percentage or rate of
which shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall require that all
amounts collected be remitted to the
City for deposit in the City Treasury.
Section 3. That the percentage of
monies collected which is equal to the
contingent fees owed as established
by the contract or contracts is appropriated for payment of the compensation authorized in this ordinance.
Section 4. That the contract or contracts authorized shall be for a period
up to two years, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the

1868

November 27, 2013
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1594-13.
By Council Members Pruitt, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing,
assembling, and installing the public art projects at the Baldwin and
Nottingham
Water
Treatment
Plants, including site improvements;
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
various rights and interests in real
property; and authorizing the Director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement, and to perform other
services necessary to implement this
ordinance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing,
assembling, and installing the public
art projects at or near the Baldwin
and Nottingham Water Treatment
Plants, including site improvements
(the “Improvement”), for the Department of Public Utilities, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross price
for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as a
separate Improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director, the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire
easements, fee interests, licenses, permits, and other rights or interests in
real property necessary to implement
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property shall not
exceed fair market value.

November 27, 2013
Section 5. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement, and to perform
other services necessary to implement this ordinance.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the cost of the professional
services,
improvement,
property acquisition, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request No. RQS
2002, RL 2013-171.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1595-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to clean and maintain insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, the first of which requires
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a two
year period, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of labor and materials needed
to clean and maintain insulators,
bushings, and lightning arrestors, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised
without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative

The City Record
authority is granted and the first of
the one-year options to renew is exercised, then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public
Utilities, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of this
Council. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2004, RL 2013-51)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1596-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission to allow the City to accept the
2013 National Senior Games cauldron
which is currently on Mall B; and
authorizing the City to accept the
donation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission for the donation of the 2013 National Senior Games
cauldron which is currently on Mall B
and the donation of reimbursing the
City for its cost to make the cauldron
a permanent structure.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to accept the
donation described above, which is
estimated to be in excess of $135,000,
from the Greater Cleveland Sports
Commission.

1869

5
Section 3. That the agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 1597-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Economic Development to enter into amendments to
two existing loans with Ohio City
Incorporated and to authorize the
assignment and assumption of the
loans by Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland, Inc. to
provide affordable housing and to
renovate the West 45th Street Apartments located at 1788 – 1790 West
45th Street; to change the terms of
the loans; and to enter into or modify any related documents and supporting instruments.
Whereas, the City, through the
Department of Economic Development, and Cleveland Multifamily Limited Partnership I (CMFLP1), an Ohio
limited partnership, entered into a
Neighborhood Development Impact
Grant Loan Agreement in 1989, under
which CMFLP1 received a loan from
the City in the principal amount of
$20,000.00 (the “E.D. Loan”) for renovation of an apartment building located at 1788-90 W. 45th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 (the “Property”) and
CMFLP1 executed a Promissory Note
dated May 10, 1989 (the “E.D. Note”);
and
Whereas, City, CMFLP1, and Ohio
City Near West Development Corporation, now known as Ohio City Incorporated, entered into an Assignment
of Leases and Assumption of Mortgage, Notes, and Leases (the “First
E.D. Assignment and Assumption”)
dated March 25, 2004 and recorded
April 2, 2004 in Cuyahoga County
records
as
AFN
Recorder
200404020396 under which the City
approved
the
assignment
and
assumption of the Loan and the Note
by Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation and released CMFLP1 in
exchange for a mortgage on the Property in favor of the City secured by
the E.D. Note. The Open-End Mortgage was signed March 25, 2004 by
Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation and recorded April 2, 2004
in Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
records as AFN 200404020397 (“E.D.
Mortgage”); and
Whereas, the E.D. Loan, the E.D.
Note, the First E.D. Assignment and
Assumption, and the E.D. Mortgage
together will be referred to as the
E.D. Loan Documents; and
Whereas, Near West Housing Corporation, now known as Ohio City
Incorporated, received a loan in the
principal amount of $37,000 (the “C.D.
Loan”) for the exclusive purpose of
rehabilitating, preserving, and/or
enhancing the Property and Near
West Housing Corporation executed a
Promissory Note in favor of the City,

6
Department of Community Development, dated August 29, 1988 (the “C.D.
Note”); and
Whereas, Near West Housing Corporation loaned the C.D. Loan funds
to CMFLP1, and CMFLP1 provided a
mortgage to Near West Housing Corporation in the amount of the C.D.
Loan. The mortgage was signed
August 29, 1988 and recorded August
30, 1988 in Volume 88-4473, Page 23 of
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
records (the “C.D. Mortgage”). The
C.D. Mortgage was immediately
assigned to the City as security for
the C.D. Loan; and
Whereas, City, CMFLP1, and Ohio
City Near West Development Corporation (fka Near West Housing Corporation) entered into an Assignment of
Leases and Assumption of Mortgage,
Notes, and Leases (the “First C.D.
Assignment and Assumption”) dated
March 25, 2004 and recorded April 2,
2004 in Cuyahoga County Recorder
records as AFN 200404020396 under
which the City approved the acquisition of the Property by Ohio City Near
West Development Corporation; and
Whereas, the C.D. Loan, the C.D.
Note, the First C.D. Assignment and
Assumption, and the C.D. Mortgage
together will be referred to as the C.D.
Loan Documents; and
Whereas, Ohio City Incorporated
wishes to transfer title to the Property to Neighborhood Housing Services
of Greater Cleveland, Inc. (“NHS”),
and to allow NHS to assume the E.D.
Loan Documents and the C.D. Loan
Documents (jointly, the “Loan Documents”); and
Whereas, City and NHS wish to
allow the title transfer of the Proper-

The City Record
ty to NHS and the assignment and
assumption of the Loan Documents
subject to modifying certain terms of
the Loan Documents including, but
not limited to, extending the maturity
dates, extending the affordability
periods, and authorizing loan forgiveness at the end of the loan terms; and
Whereas, the City and this Council
wish to allow the modifications; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
amend the C.D. Loan Documents. The
amendment will allow Ohio City
Incorporated to assign and for NHS to
assume the C.D. Loan Documents
related to the Property as modified.
The Director of Community Development is, among other things, authorized to extend the C.D. Loan term, to
forgive any interest accrued and
defer payments due under the C.D.
Loan Documents, to reduce the interest percentage to 0%, to increase the
affordability period to 40 years and
modify the terms thereof, and to forgive all principal and/or interest due
under the C.D. Loan Documents after
the 40-year affordability period has
expired so long as NHS does not
default under the terms of the C.D.
Loan Documents as modified.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
amend the E.D. Loan Documents. The
amendment will allow Ohio City
Incorporated to assign and for NHS to

November 27, 2013
assume the E.D. Loan Documents
related to the Property as modified.
The Director of Economic Development is, among other things, authorized to extend the E.D. Loan term, to
forgive any interest accrued and
defer payments due under the E.D.
Loan Documents, to reduce the interest percentage to 0%, to increase the
affordability period to 40 years and
modify the terms thereof, and to forgive all principal and/or interest due
under the E.D. Loan Documents after
the 40-year affordability period has
expired so long as NHS does not
default under the terms of the E.D.
Loan Documents as modified.
Section 3. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized to
enter into, or modify, any related documents and supporting instruments
necessary to implement this ordinance.
Section 4. That the amendments,
related documents, and supporting
instruments shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1606-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance establishing the Grantwood Allotments Historic District (Map Change No. 2471, Sheet
No. 8).
Whereas, the Cleveland Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the designation of the Grantwood Allotments Historic District
as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has determined that the character, interest, and value of the proposed Grantwood
Allotments Historic District is part of the development, heritage, and cultural characteristics of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Grantwood Allotments Historic District is identified with persons who significantly contributed to the culture and development of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Grantwood Allotments Historic District exemplifies the cultural, economic, social, and
historic heritage of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Grantwood Allotments Historic District is identified with the work of architects and
master builders whose individual work has influenced the development of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the owners of the properties within the boundaries of the proposed Grantwood Allotments Historic
District have been properly notified in accordance with Section 161.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976; and
Whereas, a public hearing pursuant to Chapter 161.04 (b) subsections (2) and (3) was held on October 3, 2013
to discuss the proposed Grantwood Allotments Historic District; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Grantwood Allotments Historic District as a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health, and safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to
safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following area, outlined on the map attached hereto, is hereby designated the Grantwood Allotments Historic District:
Beginning on the Westerly line of Parkwood Drive, N. E. (60 feet wide) at its intersection with the Northerly
line of Sublot number 262 in the Deming Realty Co.’s Grantwood Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 37 page 12 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Sublot number 262 to its intersection with the Easterly line of Sublot number 259 in the Grantwood Allotment as aforesaid;
thence continuing Westerly to a point, said point being 3 feet by rectangular measurement West of Easterly line
of said Sublot number 259; thence Northerly and parallel with said Sublot 259 to its intersection with Sublot number 266 in said Grantwood Allotment; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 266 through
301 both inclusive in said Grantwood Allotment to a Southeasterly corner of a Lot Consolidation for the Cleveland Church of Christ Apostolic as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 303, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Map

1870

November 27, 2013

The City Record

7

Records; thence Westerly along a Southerly line of said Lot Consolidation to an Easterly line thereof; thence
Southerly along said Easterly line and its Southerly prolongation to its intersection with the Southerly line of
Pasadena Avenue, N. E. (50 feet wide); thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said Pasadena Avenue to a
point 50 feet West of the Westerly line of Sublot number 220 in the Grantwood Allotment as aforesaid; thence
Southerly and parallel with said Sublot number 220 to the Northerly line of Sublot number 155 in the said Grantwood Allotment; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said Sublot 155 to the Northeast corner thereof; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot 155 about 50 feet to a point; thence Westerly and parallel with
the Northerly line of said Sublot 155 about 45 feet to a point; thence Southerly and parallel with said Sublot 155
to the Southerly line of Drexel Avenue, N. E. (58 feet wide); thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said
Drexel Avenue to the Westerly line of Sublot number 153 in the aforesaid Grantwood Allotment; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 153 and its Southerly prolongation to the Northerly line of Deming Realty Company Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 35, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Allotment to the Westerly line of Sublot number 88 in
said Deming Realty Company Allotment; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 88 and
its Southerly prolongation to the Southerly line of Grantwood Avenue, N. E. (50 feet wide); thence Westerly along
the Southerly line of said Grantwood Avenue to the Westerly line of Sublot number 5 in aforesaid Deming Realty Company Allotment; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot 5 to the Southwesterly corner
thereof; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said Sublot number 5 to the Westerly line of Sublot number
81 in said Deming Realty Company Allotment; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number
81 to the Northerly line of Sublot number 6 in the aforesaid Deming Realty Allotment; thence Easterly along the
Northerly lines of Sublot numbers 6 thru 42 both inclusive and the Easterly prolongation thereof to the Westerly line of Parkwood Drive as aforesaid; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said Parkwood Drive to the
place of beginning.
Description approved by Greg Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys and House Number Section Division of Engineering & Construction
Section 2. That the Grantwood Allotments Historic District, which in its entirety is a property having special
character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics
of the City, State, or the United States, be and it hereby is designated a landmark pursuant to Chapter 161 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 3. That the designation of the area set forth in Section 1 hereof as the Grantwood Allotments Historic
District shall be noted on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the City Planning Commission. Further, a copy of the attached map shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Cleveland Landmarks Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure, and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1871

8
Ord. No. 1607-13.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance designating True Holiness Temple (formerly Second Church of Christ, Scientist) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate True Holiness
Temple (formerly Second Church of
Christ, Scientist) as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of True Holiness
Temple
(formerly
Second
Church of Christ, Scientist) has been
properly notified and has consented
in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of True Holiness
Temple
(formerly
Second
Church of Christ, Scientist) as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That True Holiness Temple (formerly Second Church of
Christ,
Scientist),
whose
street
address in the City of Cleveland is
7706-14 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Numbers are 118-16-004, 118-16-005, 11816-038, 118-16-039, and 118-16-040, and is
also
known
as
the
following
described property:
Parcel No. 1:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 339, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
former Southerly line of Euclid
Avenue, (80 feet wide), with the
Easterly line of East 77th Street,
(formerly Morris Avenue, 60 feet
wide); thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of East 77th Street,
20.05 feet to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, by deed dated April 22,
1948 and recorded in Volume 6478,
Page
261
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and the principal place of
beginning of the premises herein
described; thence Easterly and parallel with the former Southerly line
of Euclid Avenue, which is also
along the Southerly line of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, and
is the present Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue, 119 feet to the Westerly line of land conveyed to The
Cleveland Trust Company, by deed
dated December 3, 1918 and recorded in Volume 2038, Page 498 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to The Cleveland
Trust Company, 169.95 feet to the
Northerly line of land conveyed to
Adolph Brunner, by deed dated June

The City Record
24, 1938 and recorded in Volume
4864, Page 432 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Adolph Brunner, 119 feet to the
Easterly line of East 77th Street;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of East 77th Street, 169.95 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less;
Parcel No. 2:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
7, in Bolton and Colby’s Subdivision,
of part of the Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 339, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 36
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 50 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 77th Street (formerly
Morse Avenue), and extending back
of equal width 174 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less;
Parcel No. 3:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
339, bounded and described as follows: Beginning on the Easterly line
of East 77th Street (formerly Morse
Avenue) at a point 290 feet Southerly, from the intersection of said
Easterly line of East 77th Street
with the Southerly line of Euclid
Avenue (80 feet wide); thence Easterly on a line parallel to said
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 176
feet to the Easterly line of land set
off to George Watkins by Decree of
Cuyahoga County Court of Common
Pleas, at the May term 1847; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line,
40 feet; thence Westerly on a line
parallel to said Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue, 8 feet to the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed by
J. H. Wade and wife to Vinnietta J.
Libby, by deed dated September 5,
1901 and recorded in Volume 805,
Page
438
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of land conveyed to
Vinnietta J. Libby, 60 feet; thence
Westerly on a line parallel to said
Southerly line of Euclid Avenue, 168
feet to said Easterly line of East
77th Street; thence Southerly along
said Easterly line of East 77th
Street, 100 feet to the place of beginning be the same more or less;
Parcel No. 4:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
3 in Bolton and Cody Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 339, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
36 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 50 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 77th Street formerly
Morse Avenue and extending back
176 feet on the Northerly line, 174
feet on the Southerly line and having a rear line of 37 feet, as appears
on said plat, be the same more or
less;
Parcel No. 5:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

1872

November 27, 2013
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
5 in Bolton and Colby’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 339 and Re-Subdivision
of part of George Watkins’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 339, as shown by
the recorded plat of said Bolton and
Colby’s Subdivision and Re-Subdivision in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 36
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 5 has a frontage of 50
feet on the Easterly side of East
77th Street (formerly Morse Avenue)
and extends back between parallel
lines 174 feet, according to said plat,
be the same more or less;
Parcel No. 6:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original 100 acre Lot No. 339 bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Euclid Avenue (80 feet in width) at
the Northwesterly corner of a parcel
of land conveyed by J. H. Wade Jr.
and wife to W. R. Warner by Deed
dated June 1st, 1891 and recorded in
Volume 508 of Deeds, Page 556 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Westerly along said Southerly line
of Euclid Avenue 49 feet to a point;
thence Southerly parallel with the
Westerly line of land so conveyed to
W. R. Warner, 190 feet to the
Northerly line of land conveyed to
F. P. Gibson et al Trustees to
George H. Tipling by Deed dated
May 18, 1908 and recorded in Volume
1094 of Deeds, Page 618 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of land conveyed to F. P. Gibson et al Trustees
to George H. Tipling as aforesaid,
49 feet to the Westerly line of land
conveyed to W. R. Warner as aforesaid; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
W. R. Warner as aforesaid, 190 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways. Excepting therefrom so much of land conveyed to
the City of Cleveland by deed dated
April 19th, 1948 and recorded on
April 28, 1948 in Volume 6478, Page
263 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.

November 27, 2013

The City Record

9

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1602-13.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts land locate on the west side of East 116th Street north of
Benham Avenue to Multi-Family Residential, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2468).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 116th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Benham Avenue;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 116th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot No. 33 in the Charles C. Corlett Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 15, Page 25 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of Sublot No. 29 in the aforementioned Charles C. Corlett Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 116th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Benham Avenue and
the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2468, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1873

10

The City Record

November 27, 2013

Ord. No. 1603-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and Reed.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts lands on the east and west sides of East 131st Street and on
the southeast corner of East 131st Street and Beachwood Avenue to Two Family Residential, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District (Map Change No. 2467).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Beachwood Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of East 131st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 131st Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the southerly line of Sublot No. 273 in the Miles Corlett Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 43,
Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with
the easterly line of Sublot No. 266 in the aforementioned Miles Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Beachwood Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Beachwood Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the westerly line of Sublot No. 67 in the aforementioned Miles Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation
to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 49 in the aforementioned Miles Corlett Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of East 131st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 131st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Sublot No. 9 in the Frank Hlavin Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 50, Page
28 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation through the centerline of Hlavin
Avenue and through Hoy Avenue to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot No. 60 in the aforementioned
Frank Hlavin Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot No. 11 in the Beachwood Avenue Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 47, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Beachwood Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Beachwood Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 131st
Street and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a
‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2467, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1874

November 27, 2013

The City Record

11

Ord. No. 1604-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the north side of Lorain at the Lorain Carnegie
Bridge between Columbus Road and West 17th Street to Local Retail Business or Multi-Family District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District, or a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2462).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Columbus Rd.;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Columbus Rd. to its intersection with the southerly line of the Cuyahoga River;
Thence easterly and northeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Carter Peninsula Inc. by Deed dated May 27, 1988 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V88824260051l (PPN 004-28-001);
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with a southerly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly and southeasterly along said southerly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as the Lorain Carnegie Bridge);
Thence southwesterly along said centerline to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume
4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with
the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Parcel ‘B’ of
the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence continuing in a general northwesterly direction along said southerly line to its intersection with an
easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly terminus of West 19th Street;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said terminus to its intersection with the northerly line
of vacated Grove Court (vacated by Ordinance No. 1022-89; effective date June 12, 1989);
Thence northeasterly along said northerly line of Grove Court to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 104 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment Shown on the
recorded plat in Volume 6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-006);
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge);
Thence southwesterly along said centerline Carnegie Avenue and along its southwesterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Columbus Road and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local-Retail District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 17th Street at its intersection Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain
Carnegie Bridge);
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the northwesterly line
of the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 3;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the southwesterly line of Parcel ‘B’
of the Lot Split plat recorded in Volume 361, Pages 26-33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-26-008);
Thence in a general northwesterly direction along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly line of vacated Grove Court (vacated by Ordinance No. 1022-89; effective date June 12, 1989);
Thence southwesterly along said northeasterly prolongation and said northwesterly line to its intersection with
the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 107 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown the recorded plat in
Volume 6, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-002);
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the northwesterly line of Sublot No. 29 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment shown on the recorded
plat in Volume 4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-013);
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of W. 17th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of W. 17th Street to its intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District.
Section 3. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge) at its intersection
with the southeasterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 43 in the Averell & Bradford’s Grove
Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 004-02-017);
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with
the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the northeasterly line of Sublot No.
42 in the aforementioned Averell & Bradford’s Grove Allotment;
Thence northwesterly along said northeasterly line to its intersection with the northwesterly line thereof also
known as the northwesterly line of the aforementioned Averell & Bradford’s Allotment;
Thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the centerline of West 17th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 17th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Carnegie
Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge);
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Carnegie Avenue (also known as Lorain Carnegie Bridge) to its
intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District

1875

12

The City Record

November 27, 2013

Section 4. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 3 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2462, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1605-13.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the east side of West 117th
Street; north side of Madison Avenue and between West 116th Street and West 115th Street to Residence-Office
(RO-C2), Local Retail (LR-C2), Multi-Family (MF-C2) and Townhouse (RA2-2) (Map Change No. 2469).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Detroit Avenue and the centerline of W. 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of Sublot No. 11 in the Edwin I Marshall Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 20,
Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Timothy M Shanahan and Cynthia A Shanahan by deed dated October 30,
1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V98141900038 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-24-062;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of Sublot No. 28 in the Ohio Land & Building Company Re-Sub Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 26, Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly
line thereof;

1876

November 27, 2013

The City Record

13

Thence southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to John Ermidis by deed dated October 20, 1994 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number V94499300017 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22-060;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Donald W Ponyicky and Frank Costanzo by deed dated November 27, 1996 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V96117720017 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22-067;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line a distance of 130 feet to its intersection with the northerly line of
Sublot No. 92 in the S.B Marshall Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 15, Page 32 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along the easterly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of
W. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Madison
Avenue;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 117th St;
Thence northerly along W. 117th St to the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local-Retail District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Detroit Avenue and the centerline of W. 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Timothy M Shanahan and Cynthia A Shanahan by deed dated
October 30, 1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V98141900038 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-24-062;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Montlack Realty Co and A Corp by deed dated August 5, 1992 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V92267610051 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-23-009;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 117th Street;
Thence northerly along W. 117th Street to the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Townhouse District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 3. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Franklin Boulevard and the centerline of W. 116th Street;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Franklin Boulevard to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Paul J Miczak by deed dated May 24, 1994 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number V94450920016 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22-050;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Continental Bank National Association by deed dated June 28, 2001 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200106280911 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 001-22-037;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the southerly line of Sublot No. 5 in the Puritan Realty Company Re-Sub Allotment shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 30, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of Sublot No. 10 in the Puritan Realty Company Re-Sub Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 30,
Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 116th St;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 116th St to the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
District
Section 4. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Detroit Avenue and the centerline of W. 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of Sublot No. 8 in the Edwin I Marshall Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 20,
Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly
line of Sublot No. 10 in said Allotment;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 117th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 117th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to John Ermidis by deed dated October 20, 1994 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number V94499300017 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22-060;

1877

14

The City Record

November 27, 2013

Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Mary Judith Fassnacht Trust by deed dated September 15, 1997 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V97092650046 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22-065;
Thence easterly along the easterly prolongation of said southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of
W. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the southerly line of Sublot No. 5 in the Puritan Realty Company Re-Sub Allotment shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 30, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to Andres L Castro by deed dated October 6, 1995 and recorded in Auditor’s
File Number V95085570058 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22029;
Thence easterly along the easterly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of
W. 115th Street;
Thence southerly along the centerline of W. 115th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Madison
Avenue;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 116th
Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of W. 116th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the southerly line of Sublot No. 88 in the S.B. Marshall Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 15, Page
32 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Donald W Ponyicky and Frank Costanzo by deed dated November 27, 1996 and recorded in Auditor’s
File Number V96117720017 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-22067;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of W. 117th Street;
Thence northerly along W. 117th Street to the place of origin;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Residence-Office District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
District.
Section 5. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 4 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2469, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1878

November 27, 2013
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1598-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Luke Road S.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion
of
Luke
Road
S.E.
as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
The vacation of a portion of Luke
Road S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a portion of Original One Hundred Acre lot No. 443:
Being al that portion of Luke Road
S.E. extending from the Northerly prolongation of the east line of a parcel
128-23-004, conveyed to Mount Pleasant Now Development Corp by A.F.N.
200605150955 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, westerly to its terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1578-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing an agreement with the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC
relating to making capital repairs
and improvements to the First Energy Stadium.
Whereas, the Cleveland Browns
Stadium Company LLC (the “Cleveland Browns”) have announced a 2year renovation proposal for First
Energy Stadium (the “Stadium”)
designed to address certain capital
repairs and to improve the fan experience here in Cleveland; and
Whereas, under the Lease by Way
of Concession between Cleveland
and the Cleveland Browns (the
“Lease”), Cleveland is required to
make capital repairs to the Stadium
in accordance with the terms in the
Lease; and
Whereas, under the Lease, capital
repairs include, among other things,
repairs necessary to maintain the
structural integrity of the Stadium
and preserve its usefulness as a
sports facility; and

The City Record
Whereas, the renovation proposal
announced by the Cleveland Browns
includes capital repairs that are the
responsibility of the City to perform
over the balance of the Lease term;
and
Whereas, the Cleveland Browns
have proposed to finance the full
cost of the repairs and improvements announced by them, up to an
estimated
cost
of
$120
million,
including
professional
fees
and
other soft costs; and
Whereas, the repairs and improvements made to the Stadium by the
Cleveland Browns become the property of the City upon completion;
and
Whereas, the repairs and improvements made to the Stadium by the
Cleveland
Browns
will
help
to
ensure that the Stadium remains a
sound and valuable asset of the City
over the remainder of the Lease
term; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of Public Works and Finance are authorized
to enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland Browns that provides as
follows:
(a) The Cleveland Browns agree to
finance and make up to an estimated
$120 million in repairs and improvements to the Stadium in two phases in
2014 and 2015, including professional
fees and other soft costs;
(b) Commencing on or before June
1, 2014 and on or before June 1st of
each calendar year during the term of
the Lease thereafter and subject to
annual appropriation, the City shall
pay the Cleveland Browns Two Million Dollars ($2 million) per year for
fifteen (15) years, the remaining full
term years under the Lease;
(c) On or before January 2, 2016, the
City shall deposit $12 million in the
Capital Repair Fund established
under the Lease (the “$12 Million
Deposit”) to be used exclusively for
making the following types of Capital Repairs under the Lease as proposed by the Cleveland Browns:
(1) Structural repairs, including
painting the structural steel frame;
(2) Waterproofing/coating, including traffic coating on all ramps and
concourse surfaces;
(3) Roof repairs and replacement;
(4) Escalator/elevator repair and
replacement;
(5) Concrete/asphalt work, including crack, joint and spall repair;
(6) Lighting repair and replacement;
(7) Building system repairs and
replacement for the following systems;
(i) Plumbing,
(ii) Electrical,
(iii) HVAC, and
(iv) Pump station;
(8) Exterior facade cleaning; and
(9) Expansion joint replacement.
Annually commencing in 2015, the
Cleveland Browns may propose these
types of Capital Repairs to be made
by the City from the proceeds of the
$12 Million Deposit during the following construction season for so long as
any remaining proceeds of the deposit
exist. After review, the City will
determine whether the proposed work
is a Capital Repair meeting one of the

1879

15
above types to be made by the City at
the Stadium during the following calendar year. The Cleveland Browns at
its cost may prepare the plans and
specifications for the Capital Repairs
authorized by the City and supply
them to the City. If the Cleveland
Browns want to prepare the plans and
specifications and be reimbursed for
the cost from the Capital Repair Fund
under the Lease, the City will, upon
ordinance authority, enter into an
agreement to reimburse these costs
from the Capital Repair Fund. If the
City determines that proposed work is
a Capital Repair meeting one of the
above types to be made by the City at
the Stadium during the following calendar year, the City will bid and contract for the making of the work following City procedures from the $12
Million Deposit within an available
construction time period of January
through July 31st. All contractors to
be selected for work paid from the $12
Million Deposit will meet prequalification criteria mutually agreed upon
by the City and the Cleveland Browns.
The City shall receive a credit
against
the
scheduled
deposits
required by Schedule 14(f) of the
Lease in the amount of $7,500,000 in
calendar year 2025 and $4,500,000 in
calendar year 2024 because of the $12
Million
Deposit.
This
provision
applies solely to the making of Capital Repairs from the proceeds of the
$12 Million Deposit and shall not alter
or amend the provisions of the Lease
for any other purpose, though any
inconsistencies between this provision and the Lease will be resolved in
favor of this provision; and
(d) Should the City in the future
increase the rate of the admission tax
to be paid for admission to events at
the Stadium, the City agrees to
deposit into the Capital Repair Fund,
subject to annual appropriation, an
amount equal to the increase in the
admission taxes collected at the Stadium. The deposited funds will then
be available for Capital Repairs at
the Stadium pursuant to the provisions of the Lease.
Section 2. That the agreement
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such terms and conditions necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 13.
Nays 5.
Those voting Yea: Council Members
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Dow, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Westbrook, Zone.
Those voting Nay: Council Members
Brady, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Polensek.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Read third time in full. Passed,
Yeas 13. Nays 5.
Those voting Yea: Council Members
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Dow, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Westbrook, Zone.

16
Those voting Nay: Council Members
Brady, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Polensek.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Ord. No. 1579-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Building
and Construction Trades Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code,
this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the
Cleveland Building and Construction
Trades Council, under the terms contained in File No. 1579-13-A, for the
period from April 1, 2013 through
March 31, 2016.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1580-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities or agencies to
generate program income including
but not limited to the rental of the
Healthmobile.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 59609, passed May 11, 2009, this Council authorized the Director of Public
Health to apply for and accept a
Moms First Program grant with a
grant term of five years; and
Whereas, one of the City’s obligations under this grant is to generate program income which will fulfill obligations under the Moms
First grant; and
Whereas, this council also determines that it is in the public interest to rent the City’s Healthmobile
to various entities or agencies to
provide on-site access for citizens to
receive health-related information
and to receive clinical services and
finds a public purpose in the passage of this legislation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with various
entities or agencies to accept program income, and collect and charge
fees for the rental of the Healthmobile during the grant term authorized

The City Record
in Ordinance No. 596-09. The rental
fees shall be $46.88 per hour pursuant
to the agreement and shall be deposited into Fund No. 19 SF 752 which will
be used to provide services under the
program.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1581-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health to provide clinical services
and to accept reimbursement payments for services provided under
the agreement.
Whereas, the Cuyahoga County
Board of Health has received a
grant from the State of Ohio to conduct the Ohio Breast and Cervical
Cancer Prevention Program; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
wishes to participate in their grant
by providing clinical services to
individuals referred to the City by
the County; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will
receive
reimbursement
payments from the County through
their Ohio Breast and Cervical Cancer Prevention Program, for clinical
services performed on referred individuals; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health in
order for the City of Cleveland to provide services under the County’s Ohio
Breast and Cervical Cancer Prevention Program, and to receive and
accept reimbursement payments for
services provided to individuals
referred to the City by the County.
Section 2. That the reimbursement
payments collected under this ordinance shall be deposited into a fund
to be determined by the Director of
Finance and will be used for purchases and training needed to provide and
maximize the City services, and are
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1880

November 27, 2013
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1582-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health and
the Academy of Educational Development for the 2014 Federal AIDS
Prevention Program; and to enter
into contract with various agencies
to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $871,300, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health and the Academy of Educational Development, to
conduct the 2014 Federal AIDS Prevention Program, for the purposes in
the summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1582-13-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts to implement
the program as described in the summary contained in the file with the
following agencies, in the following
approximate amounts:
Amount

Agency
AIDS Taskforce of
Greater Cleveland

$ 65,000.00

Cleveland Treatment
Center

$106,400.00

Free Clinic of Greater
Cleveland

$ 70,000.00

MetroHealth Medical
Center

$130,000.00

Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services, Inc.
(“NEON”)
$ 60,000.00
Planned Parenthood of
Greater Ohio

$ 75,000.00

Recovery Resources

$ 56,000.00

Regional Advisory Group $
TOTAL

3,000.00

$565,400.00

In addition, the approximate sum of
$108,289 is appropriated to the Depart-

November 27, 2013
ment of Public Health for administrative costs of implementing this program and the approximate sum of
$197,611 is appropriated to the Department of Public Health for the operation of the Disease Intervention Specialist Services Program and services
conducted by the Department.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term and shall have the
authority to enter into one or more
contracts with additional agencies or
entities as approved by the grantors.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1583-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Alcohol Drug Addiction and
Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County for the 2014 Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program; and to enter into
one or more agreements with the
Board for the City to receive payments from the Medicaid program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $305,971 and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Alcohol
Drug Addiction and Mental Health
Services Board of Cuyahoga County
to conduct the 2014 Mental Health and
Substance Abuse Prevention Program; that the Director of Public
Health is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the summary for the grant contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1583-13-A, is made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is

The City Record
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
Alcohol Drug Addiction and Mental
Health Services Board of Cuyahoga
County for the City to receive payments from the Medicaid programs
for alcohol drug addiction and mental
health services provided by the City.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program, according to the sliding fee
scale placed in the file, and to deposit
those fees into a revolving fund
which will be used to provide additional materials equipment, supplies,
and services under the program
described in the file, and the funds
are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds, Medicaid payments
accepted under this ordinance, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any fees received under this
program.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1584-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2014 Immunization
Action Plan Program; authorizing
the Director to charge and accept
fees for this program; and authorizing one or more agreements with
Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs for
the City to receive payments.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

1881

17
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $95,340, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Cuyahoga County Board of Health, to conduct the 2014 Immunization Action
Plan Program; that the Director of
Public Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes in the
summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1584-13-A, is made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
including the obligation to devote
program income from first and third
party billings, estimated at $10,000, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs to receive
payments under this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds and program income accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

18
Ord. No. 1585-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District for the 2014 Solid
Waste Disposal Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $70,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District to conduct the 2014 Solid
Waste Disposal Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the Summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the Summary for the
grant, File No. 1585-13-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1586-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2014 STD Control Prevention
Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement
the grant; and to enter into an
agreement with the Ohio Department of Health for the City to
receive payments from the Medicaid
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $131,288, and any other
funds as they become available during the grant term, from the Ohio
Department of Health, to conduct the
2014 STD Control Prevention Program, for the purposes in the summary and budget and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Health is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1586-13-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies or entities to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Ohio Department of Health for the City to receive
payments from the Medicaid programs to implement this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 8. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all docu-

1882

November 27, 2013
ments and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds, Medicaid payments
accepted under this ordinance, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any fees received under this
program.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1587-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriCommunity
Development
ating
Block Grant funds for expenses of
the Childhood Lead Prevention Program through the Department of
Public Health; and authorizing the
Director of Public Health to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, and individuals in conjunction with the program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
receives Community Development
Block Grant (“CDBG”) funds from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, the City, through the
Department of Community Development, uses CDBG funds for housing
development, home repair, and home
improvement; and
Whereas, the Department of Community Development is working
with
the
Department
of
Public
Health on lead poisoning prevention
activities along with Environmental
Health Watch and other partners;
and
Whereas, the Department of Community Development will support
the Department of Public Health’s
activity by providing CDBG funding;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, as a Subrecipient
Grantee of CDBG funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies, entities, and individuals for laboratory
services, case management services,
conducting community collaboration,
community outreach, education, and
investigations, and CDBG funds in
the amount not to exceed $75,000 are
appropriated for costs of the Department of Public Health associated
with conducting the Childhood Lead
Poisoning Prevention Program.

The City Record

November 27, 2013
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Public Health and the Director
of Community Development shall
enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts, and administrative
costs referred to in Section 1, authorized in this ordinance shall not

19

exceed $75,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 039.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1588-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO; and amending Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011,
relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO, under the terms
contained in File No. 1588-13-A, for the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2016, and which provides,
among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

1%
2%
2%

April 1, 2013
April 1, 2014
April 1, 2015

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 7. Service Employees International Union, Local 1, AFL-CIO. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after
each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Bridge Oilier .................................................................................
Custodial Worker ........................................................................
Window Washer ..........................................................................

Minimum
10.00
10.00
12.54

Maximum
18.56
15.12
20.89

Section 3. That existing Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1589-13.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contract with the Ohio
Department of Health to perform
environmental lead investigations of
residences of Medicaid-eligible children during the Children’s Lead Poisoning Prevention Program’s grant
term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
contract with the Ohio Department of
Health, under which the City will perform environmental lead investigations for lead hazards in residences
occupied by Medicaid-eligible children during the Children’s Lead Poisoning Prevention Program’s grant
term. The contract shall provide that
the City will receive compensation for
performing the lead investigations in
an amount not to exceed $72,000 to be
deposited into a fund to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance is authorized to receive
and accept the compensation on
behalf of the City and the Director of
Public Health is authorized to sign
the documents necessary to enter into
the contract.

1883

Section 2. That the agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record

20

November 27, 2013

Ord. No. 1590-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 40 and 58 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as
amended by Ordinance No. 121-13, passed January 28, 2013, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 40 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 12113, passed January 28, 2013, is amended to read as follows:
Section 40. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Assistant Building Official ...................................................
City Comptroller ..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Chief Technology Officer.........................................................
Commissioner of Accounts ......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative Services Community Development......................................................
Commissioner of Air Quality .................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Burke Airport ............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ........................
Commissioner of Code Enforcement....................................
Commissioner of Construction Permitting ........................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services ...............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health ...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections ..............................
Commissioner of Information Technology & Services .
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development ..................
Commissioner of Real Estate ................................................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services ...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties.....
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management ............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .........................
Commissioner of Recreation ...................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering ................................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control ..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water ............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ........................
Deputy City Treasurer..............................................................
Deputy Director Department of Building and Housing
Director of Workforce Development ...................................
Income Tax Administrator ......................................................
Manager of Administration – Public Works....................
Manager of Internal Audit .....................................................

Minimum
$42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
80,000.00
40,314.82

Maximum
$137,860.74
137,860.74
127,255.39
200,000.00
132,061.01

40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.92
42,758.15
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
42,758.15
45,021.46
40,314.82
52,734.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
40,314.82
26,273.96
36,590.39
70,000.00
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82

132,061.01
137,860.74
121,901.44
121,901.44
147,661.45
172,186.61
137,860.74
137,860.74
137,860.74
137,860.74
146,558.11
121,778.85
146,558.11
132,061.01
121,901.44
121,901.44
127,255.39
147,661.45
132,061.01
132,061.01
146,558.11
127,255.39
147,661.45
132,061.01
127,255.39
121,901.44
132,061.01
206,000.00
132,061.01
85,814.69
137,860.74
164,800.00
137,860.74
121,901.44
121,901.44

Section 2. That existing Section 40 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 121-13, passed January 28, 2013, is repealed.
Section 3. That 58 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 58. Division of Fire; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following ranks of the Division of Fire shall be fixed by the
appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Battalion Chief.............................................................................
Captain ............................................................................................
Lieutenant ......................................................................................
Firefighter – Journeyman .......................................................

Minimum
$84,117.25
72,514.87
62,512.82
53,890.36

Maximum
$86,640.76
74,690.31
63,888.20
55,507.07

5.

Firefighter Medic ........................................................................

45,904.64

86,640.76

6.

Apprentice - Medic III ..............................................................

48,404.64

49,781.78

1884

November 27, 2013
7.
8.
9.

The City Record

Apprentice - Medic II ................................................................
Apprentice - Medic I..................................................................
Trainee ............................................................................................

21
46,904.64
45,904.64
10.50

47,281.78
47,281.78
10.50

Section 4. That existing Section 58 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, is repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1591-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from
the State of Ohio’s Clean Ohio Green
Space Conservation Program for
land acquisition, and the construction of improvements in Stage 3 of
the Towpath Trail project; authorizing the Director to accept grants
and gifts from any public or private
entity for the improvement; authorizing the Director to transfer grant
funds, if received from the Clean
Ohio Green Space Conservation Program, to Cuyahoga County; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase real
estate and accept donation of real
estate.
Whereas, the Towpath Trail is
largely complete from Zoar, Ohio, to
the Cleveland City limits and land
and
construction
of
acquisition
Stage 3 of the project brings it closer to completion; and
Whereas, Stage 3 of the Towpath
Trail project is part of a joint effort
by the City of Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, Cleveland Metroparks, and
the Ohio Canal Corridor to extend
the Towpath Trail from its current
terminus at Harvard Avenue in
Cleveland, and ending at the proposed Canal Basin Park near Settler’s Landing; and
Whereas, Ord. No. 1407-12 authorized the purchase of certain Stage
3 strategic properties; and
Whereas, an integral part of Stage
3 of the Towpath Trail project
includes the acquisition of additional Stage 3 properties which are necessary for Stage 3 of the project
which is located north of Steelyard
Commons and south of Literary
Road (the “Stage 3 Properties”) and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant not to exceed
$1,425,000 from the Clean Ohio Green
Space Conservation Program, or its

successor or designee, for the Towpath Trail Stage 3 project; that the
Directors of Public Works and
Finance are authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the file mentioned below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1591-13-A, is made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten.
The Director is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
Cuyahoga County for the Towpath
Trail Stage 3 project. The Agreement
shall require that Stage 3 Towpath
Trail project funds held by Cuyahoga
County shall be used as the required
25% matching funds (anticipated to
be $475,000) for the Clean Ohio Green
Space Conservation Program grant
and for costs associated with the
acquisition of Stage 3 Properties into
the name of the City of Cleveland that
are not acquired with Clean Ohio
Green Space Conservation Program
grant funds.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
and notwithstanding the receipt of
grant funding authorized in Section 1
of this ordinance, the Director of Public Works and the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies are authorized to purchase property needed for
Stage 3 of the Towpath Trail project,
which is located north of Steelyard
Commons and south of Literary Road
(the “Stage 3 Properties”).
Section 4. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and
record the property, satisfy applicable federal acquisition and relocation
regulations, and to employ and pay
all fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, relocation consultants, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 5. That the consideration to
be paid for the Stage 3 Properties
shall not exceed fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.

Section 6. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
Cleveland Metroparks, Ohio Canal
Corridor, or other entities needed to
effectuate this ordinance.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to accept
grants and gifts of property from any
public or private entity for the Towpath Trail Stage 3 project;
Section 8. That if Clean Ohio Green
Space Conservation Program grant
funds are received, the Director of
Public Works is authorized to send
payment to Cuyahoga County for
remediation and restoration of land
and construction of the improvements
on the Stage 3 Properties; that payment to the County shall be paid from
the fund or funds that are credited the
proceeds of the grant accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 9. That the contract or contracts, and purchase agreements
authorized by this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 10. That the cost of the property acquisitions shall be paid from
both the fund or funds that are credited the proceeds of the grant accepted
under this ordinance and from Stage 3
Towpath Trail project funds held by
Cuyahoga County.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Westbrook, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1591-13.

Ord. No. 1599-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Six Hundred Fifty Thousand ($650,000) of Enterprise Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Six Hundred Fifty Thousand ($650,000) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That there is hereby appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official Certificate of Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:

1885

The City Record

22

November 27, 2013

ENTERPRISE FUND

$650,000
———————
650,000

TOTAL ALL FUNDS
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Parking Facilities - Off Street Parking
II.
Other Expenses

650,000
650,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUND
TOTAL ALL FUNDS

650,000
———————
650,000
———————
650,000
———————
———————

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1600-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make temporary appropriations for the current payrolls and other ordinary expenses of the City of Cleveland from the period from January 1, 2014 until the effective date of the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014
Whereas, it is desired to postpone the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance until the amended certificate is received, based on the actual balances as the same may be determined by the Director of Finance and
the County Budget Commission; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. To provide for the current payrolls, sinking fund and other ordinary expenses of the City of Cleveland for the period from January 1, 2014 until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2014, there be and there is hereby appropriated for the period from January 1,
2014 until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Five Hundred Thirty Five Million, Seven Hundred Forty
One Thousand, Four Hundred Ninety Five Dollars ($535,741,495) out of taxes due the City of Cleveland and any
other revenues accrued or occurring during said period of time and said funds are respectively appropriated as
follows:
2014 TEMPORARY BUDGET ORDINANCE
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Personnel
Department of Community Development (Consumer Affairs)
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental
Total Executive Branch
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

$2,595,417
$16,233,239
$3,829,845
$361,802
$1,024,554
$80,947
$3,046,184
$5,818,342
$2,495,296
$88,426,531
$23,077,533
$2,773,426
$463,591
$18,349,145
———————
$149,747,196
––——————
––——————
$168,575,852
––——————
––——————
$50,974,965
$11,078,268
$273,851,758
$3,339,416
$27,921,236
———————
$535,741,495
––——————
––——————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2014

1886

The City Record

November 27, 2013

23

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,595,417
$1,368,313
1,227,104
———————
$2,595,417

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$5,391,486
2,477,381

$7,868,867

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,649,719
4,695,641

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$953,458
65,554

$7,345,360

$1,019,012

———————
$16,233,239
––——————
––——————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$641,115
45,384

$686,499

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,181,885
224,211

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$51,952
2,950

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$34,512
4,892

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$60,608
6,200

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$169,674
98,899

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$332,294
20,257

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$423,500
72,475

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$2,036

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$226,649
9,112

Office of Budget & Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$208,620
12,620

$1,406,096

$54,902

$39,404

$66,808

$268,573

$352,551

$495,975

$2,036

$235,761

$221,240

———————
$3,829,845
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

1887

24

The City Record

November 27, 2013

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$361,802
$229,629
132,173
———————
$361,802
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,024,554
$385,110
639,444
———————
$1,024,554
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Division of Consumer Affairs
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$80,947
$75,921
5,026
———————
$80,947
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$3,046,184
$1,782,883
1,263,301
———————
$3,046,184
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$250,714
312,914

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$393,479
271,208

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$667,707
645,546

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$175,583
55,713

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$191,296
17,583

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$161,034
490,899

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$368,183
8,735

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$563,628

$664,687

$1,313,253

$231,296

$208,879

$651,933

$376,918

$1,807,748
$582,492
1,225,256
———————
$5,818,342
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

1888

November 27, 2013

The City Record

25

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$185,743
325,609

$511,352

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$516,317
898,183

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$247,682
178,816

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$30,506
112,440

$1,414,500

$426,498

$142,946

———————
$2,495,296
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$978,539
601,052

$1,579,591

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$46,894,077
3,757,257

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$22,811,564
1,493,341

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$5,633,210
1,225,738

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$271,178
201,197

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$3,036,841
1,522,537

$50,651,334

$24,304,905

$6,858,948

$472,375

$4,559,378

———————
$88,426,531
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$762,219
80,204

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,246,493
2,334,101

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$329,223
16,336

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$1,499,921
1,146,458

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,369,729
3,011,186

Division of Waste
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$3,713,609
4,424,467

1889

$842,423

$4,580,594

$345,559

$2,646,379

$5,380,915

$8,138,076

The City Record

26

November 27, 2013

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,143,587
$749,743
393,844
———————
$23,077,533
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$473,768
198,484

$672,252

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,574,158
77,400

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$442,976
6,640

$1,651,558

$449,616

———————
$2,773,426
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$463,591
$457,503
6,088

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$463,591
––——————
––——————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

6,827,372

$6,827,372

Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

11,521,773

$11,521,773
———————
$18,349,145
———————
$149,747,196
———————
$168,575,852
––——————
––——————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$2,741,746
34,341,599

$37,083,345

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$5,256,544
8,635,076

$13,891,620

———————
$50,974,965
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

1890

$353,795
$63,275
290,520
$2,582,631
$357,725
2,224,906
$7,126,410
$1,564,952
5,561,458

The City Record

November 27, 2013

27

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$233,254
579,730

$812,984

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$27,768
174,680

$202,448

———————
$11,078,268
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$961,300
$656,167
305,133

Radio
I.
II.

$1,344,004
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$157,017
1,186,987

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$896,365
257,600

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$23,067,759
81,484,412

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,991,089
4,578,523

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$8,535,722
59,944,905

$1,153,965

$104,552,171

$7,569,612

$68,480,627

———————
$184,061,679
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions Of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$78,450,132
$9,071,115
69,379,017
———————
$78,450,132
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$340,639
309,309

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$7,200
242,200

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Convention Center
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$649,948

$249,400

$4,285,945
$355,970
3,929,975
$928,256
$298,081
630,175

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-West Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$119,363
II.
Other Expenses
557,735

1891

$677,098

The City Record

28

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.
Other Expenses

November 27, 2013
$4,533,300
$4,533,300

Division of Property Management - East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses
$16,000

$16,000
———————
$11,339,947
———————
$273,851,758
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$3,339,416
$1,820,846
1,518,570
———————
$3,339,416
––——————
––——————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$27,921,236
27,921,236

———————
$27,921,236
––——————
––——————
Section 2. That all expenditures and payments made under and pursuant to the ordinance appropriating such
sum or sums of money shall be charged against the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2014, when such appropriation ordinance shall become effective, and to the various departments and
divisions and payment of whose officers and employees and operating expenses such sum or sums of money hereunder shall then have paid out or expended. Provided, however, that no payment shall be made under the authority of this ordinance after the effective date of said Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2014.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Ord. No. 1601-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the transfer and amendment to the General Fund appropriations in the
amount of Two Million Nine Thousand ($2,009,000), One Million One Hundred Fifty Thousand ($1,150,000) within
the Special Revenue Fund, and Five Million Six Hundred Five Thousand, Five Hundred Seventy Six ($5,605,576)
within the Enterprise Fund.
Whereas, in accordance with Section 41 of the Charter, the Mayor has recommended in writing the within transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That amendment to the General Fund appropriations in the amount of Two Million Nine Thousand
($2,009,000), One Million One Hundred Fifty Thousand ($1,150,000) within the Special Revenue Fund, and Five Million Six Hundred Five Thousand, Five Hundred Seventy Six ($5,605,576) within the Enterprise Fund. as follows:
Transfer
To

Transfer
From

GENERAL FUND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 42,000

$ 42,000
-

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

42,000

42,000

Office of Personnel
II.
Other Expenses

7,000

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

7,000

-

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

1892

November 27, 2013

The City Record

29

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

15,000

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

15,000

-

Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

11,000

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

11,000

-

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

34,000

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

34,000

-

-

1,967,000

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
II.
Other Expenses

285,000

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

285,000

1,967,000

Building and Housing Director’s Office
II.
Other Expenses

15,000

-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

15,000

-

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

1,600,000

-

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

1,600,000

-

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

2,009,000

2,009,000

900,000
-

900,000

STREET CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE & REPAIR FUND
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
250,000
II.
Other Expenses
-

250,000

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Property Management
II.
Other Expenses

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

NONDEPARTMENTAL

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
RESTRICTED INCOME TAX FUND
I.
Capital
II.
Debt

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

1,150,000

1,150,000

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

5,500,000

5,500,000
-

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

105,576

105,576
-

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

5,605,576

5,605,576

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

5,605,576

5,605,576

8,764,576

8,764,576

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

1893

30

The City Record

November 27, 2013

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1608-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Council President to enter
into an agreement with Cobalt
Group, Inc. for the professional services necessary to provide for implementation of an operations and sustainability plan for Cleveland City
Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council President is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Cobalt Group, Inc.
(“Consultant”) for the professional
services necessary to provide for the
implementation of an operations and
sustainability plan for Cleveland City
Council, including the services set
forth in Consultant’s 2014 Statement
of Work and those services as may be
directed by the Clerk of Council or her
designee. This agreement shall be
entered into as of January 1, 2014 and
shall be for a term of one year, concluding December 31, 2014.
The agreement shall be certified
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$66,000.00 from fund 01, dept. 0101,
subfund 001, and object code 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1608-13.
Ord. No. 1609-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to provide professional
financial consulting and auditing
services necessary for Cleveland
City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to provide professional financial consulting and auditing services necessary
for Cleveland City Council, including,
but not limited to, analysis of the
Mayor’s Estimate, preparation and
presentation of the Council budget
retreat, and briefings to the Council
President, and any other financial
advisory services as directed by the
Clerk or her designee. This agreement shall be entered into as of January 1, 2014 and shall be for a term of
one year, concluding December 31,
2014.
The agreement shall be certified
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$50,000.00 from fund 01, dept. 0101
subfund 001 object code 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1609-13.
Ord. No. 1610-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Don McTigue for
the professional services necessary
to assist Cleveland City Council
with legal issues, including but not
limited to advising on the Charter
and Codified Ordinances related to
campaign finance issues.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Don McTigue for the professional services necessary to assist
Cleveland City Council with legal
issues, including but not limited to
advising on the Charter and Codified
Ordinances related to campaign
finance issues, for a one year period
beginning January 1, 2014 and concluding December 31, 2014.

1894

Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $25,000 and
shall be certified from Fund 01,
Dept. 0101, Subfund 001, Object Code
6320.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 16. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1610-13.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1610-13.
Ord. No. 1611-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Mita Marketing
LLC for the professional services
necessary to assist Cleveland City
Council with communications and
public relations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Mita Marketing LLC for
the professional services necessary to
assist Cleveland City Council with
communications and public relations,
for a one year period beginning January 1, 2014 and concluding December
31, 2014.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $60,000 and
shall be certified from Fund 01,
Dept. 0101, Subfund 001, Object Code
6320.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

November 27, 2013
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1611-13.
Ord. No. 1612-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with The Project
Group for professional assistance in
investigating utility–related matters
pertaining to the Divisions of Cleveland
Public
Power,
Water
and
Water Pollution Control for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Project Group for professional assistance in investigating
utility–related matters pertaining to
the Divisions of Cleveland Public
Power, Water and Water Pollution
Control for Cleveland City Council.
The agreement shall be certified
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$250,000.00 from fund 52-001, 54-001
and/or 58-001 and such other funds
as may be deemed appropriate by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1612-13.
Ord. No. 1613-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a fifth amendment to the agreement with Solar Systems Networking Inc., City Contract No. PS
2010*83, for additional money for the
continuation of professional services
necessary to advise and assist in the
maintenance and performance of
computer technology projects for
Cleveland City Council.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
(“Clerk”) is authorized to enter into a
fifth amendment to the agreement
with Solar Systems Networking Inc.
(“Consultant”), City Contract No. PS
2010*83, to add $80,000 to the agreement for the continuation of the professional services necessary to advise
and assist in the maintenance and
performance of computer technology
projects, as may be directed by the
Clerk.
The cost of all services under this
agreement shall be paid for from
fund 11-006 and/or 21-006.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1613-13.
Ord. No. 1614-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into
an
agreement
with
thunder::tech for professional services necessary to provide upgrades
to and support and maintenance for
the intranet and internet sites for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
(“Clerk”) is authorized in to enter
into an agreement with thunder::tech,
(“Consultant”) for the professional
services
necessary
to
provide
upgrades to and support and maintenance for the intranet and internet
sites for Cleveland City Council.
The term of this agreement shall
begin January 1, 2014 and shall be
for two years. The fee for services
under
this
agreement
shall
be
$325/month for a total amount not
to exceed $7,800 which shall be paid
for from fund 11-006 and/or 21-006.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

1895

31
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1614-13.
Ord. No. 1615-13.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to amend
Agreement
No.
CT0101-PS2013-191
with Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a Thriving Communities
Institute for professional consulting
services, to staff and administer the
Vacant Abandoned Property Action
Council, to extend the term through
December 31, 2014 and certify additional funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to amend Agreement No.
CT0101- PS2013-191 with Western
Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a/
Thriving Communities Institute to
provide professional consulting services to staff and administer the
Vacant Abandoned Property Action
Council whose member organizations, including Cleveland City Council, strategize solutions to the varied
problems associated with vacant and
abandoned property. The term shall
be extended from July 1, 2014 through
December 31, 2014. Additional funds
shall be certified not to exceed
$150,000.00 from Fund 01, Dept. 0101,
Subfund 001, Object Code 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Westbrook recused himself for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1615-13.

32
Ord. No. 1616-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Health to enter into agreement with Kincaid’s Kindred Spirits,
Inc., for the Sickle Cell Awareness
Education Program through the use
of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health be
authorized to enter into an agreement
with Kincaid’s Kindred Spirits, Inc.,
for the Sickle Cell Awareness Education Program for the public purpose
of providing educational classes on
the management of sickle cell anemia
to residents residing in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $40,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1617-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Works to enter into an
agreement with the Pierre Nappier
Jr. Foundation for the Patriots
Youth Sports Football Recreation
Program through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Works be
authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Pierre Nappier Jr. Foundation for the Patriots Sports Football
Recreation Program for the public
purpose of providing organized youth
recreational activities for city of
Cleveland youths through the use of
Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall

The City Record
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1618-13.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance designating Ablewhite Avenue off of
Eddy Road with a secondary and
honorary designation of “Samuel A.
McNeal Way”.
Whereas, Mr. Samuel A. McNeal
played
baseball
in
the
Negro
Leagues, and was a leader in the
masons, his community and church;
and,
Whereas, the citizens of Forest
Hills neighborhood want to honor
Mr. Samuel A. McNeal as a token of
their appreciation by designating
Ablewhite
Avenue
“Samuel
A.
McNeal Way”; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ablewhite Avenue
off of Eddy Road is designated with a
secondary and honorary designation
of “Samuel A. McNeal Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1635-13.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 403.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76,
passed June 29, 1976, relating to
police enforcement duty.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 403.01 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1684-76, passed June 29, 1976, is
amended to read as follows:

1896

November 27, 2013
Section 403.01 Police Enforcement
Duty
The Police Division of the Department of Public Safety shall enforce
the provisions of this Traffic Code.
The Chief of Police shall assign
such officers and members of the
Division of Police as he or she determines necessary to the Traffic Control Unit, who shall be charged with
the specific duty of enforcing the
provisions of this Traffic Code. Pursuant to regulations made under
Section 403.05, the Chief of Police
may allow persons who are not officers or members of the Division of
Police to direct traffic. In the event
of fire or other emergency, or to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, members of the Police and
Fire Divisions may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding any other provisions in
this Traffic Code.
Section 2. That existing Section
403.01of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed
June 29, 1976, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1619-13.
By Council Members Cummins, Conwell, Polensek, Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Miller, Mitchell and Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate to support Senate
Bill 83 that provides that there is no
period of limitation for the prosecution of an offense of rape and sexual battery.
Whereas, according to the National
Crime
Victimization
Survey,
232,960 women in the U.S. were
raped or sexually assaulted in 2006,
which is more than 600 women per
day; and
Whereas, a 2010 survey by the
National Center for Injury Prevention and Control affirmed that sexual violence against women remains
endemic in the United States where
nearly one in five women surveyed
revealed that they had been raped
at some point in their lives; and
Whereas, in a nationally representative survey conducted by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 37.4% of female rape victims were first raped between the
ages of 18 to 24, 29.9% were first
raped between the ages of 11 to 17,
while 12.3% of female rape victims
were first raped when they were
age 10 or younger; and
Whereas, the experience of rape
and sexual assault is so traumatizing to the female victims that many
of them often fail to come forward

November 27, 2013
to
file
charges
of
the
assault
against the perpetrators, allowing
the perpetrators free to commit more
acts of physical violence against
women; and
Whereas, new technologies such
as rape kits and DNA matching provide scientific evidence that can be
used by law enforcement agencies
to identify the perpetrators of these
crimes and bring them to justice,
and encourages more female victims
to come forward to seek justice; and
Whereas, many of these rape kits
can be used to provide evidence to
cold rape cases that occurred many
years ago, identifying serial predators and bringing them to justice;
and
Whereas, under current state law,
a prosecution for the offense of rape
or sexual battery is barred unless it
is commenced within 20 years after
the offense was committed; and
Whereas, this limitation on prosecution for the offenses of rape or
sexual battery hinders the overall
effectiveness of bringing sexual
predators to justice and fails to
keep communities safe from such
predators; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 83 provides
that there is no period of limitation
for the prosecution of an offense of
rape or sexual battery, thus increasing the opportunity to identify past
sexual predators and bring them to
justice, and by removing the 20 year
limitation by which a woman had to
bring charges, women will have
time to become less traumatized and
more likely to bring charges when
mentally able to do so; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio Senate to support Senate Bill
83 that provides that there is no period of limitation for the prosecution of
an offense of rape and sexual battery.
Section 2. That the Clerk of the
Council is directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to all members of
the Ohio Senate.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1620-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Kelley and Cummins.
An emergency resolution opposing
the pending license application to
allow
future
operations
of
the
Bradley Road Landfill in the Old
Brooklyn neighborhood of the City.
Whereas, recently the owner/operators of the Bradley Road Landfill
applied to the City of Cleveland

The City Record
Department of Health to allow for
future operations of the landfill; and
Whereas, the Landfill has not
been in use for several years, however, it has never been properly
capped and closed; and
Whereas, the Landfill is in violation of many of Ohio’s environmental laws and regulations, including
exposed waste, ponding and erosion,
leachate seeps, leachate discharges
to surface water bodies, and failing
slopes; and
Whereas, the current estimated
cost to cap and close the landfill is
$1,000,000; this cost will increase if
there is not action to bring the
Landfill into compliance with Ohio
laws; and
Whereas, without repair and proper capping and closure of the Landfill, conditions will continue to deteriorate, increasing human health
and safety concerns in an already
dismal health and safety situation;
and
Whereas, future operation of the
Landfill would in actuality be operation of a new facility, which is not
permitted under the City’s Zoning
Code; and
Whereas, a new facility is not permitted under Ohio law because the
Landfill’s license was revoked in
2003 as the facility was in substantial non-compliance with Ohio laws;
nothing has been done to correct
these violations, despite a consent
decree seven years ago calling for
to
be
corrected;
all
violations
the
facility
has
been
instead,
allowed to languish with no waste
having been dumped there for years,
the site rendered unusable with its
buildings torn down; and
Whereas, in order to preserve the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of this Old Brooklyn neighborhood who have been living with
this abysmally maintained Landfill
for years, the City Health Department must not issue a license to
allow for future operations of the
Bradley Road Landfill; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
opposes the pending license application to allow future operations of the
Bradley Road Landfill in the Old
Brooklyn neighborhood of the City.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the Chief of the
Ohio
Department
of
Natural
Resources and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.

1897

33
Res. No. 1621-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution opposing
the impending bank branch closing
of the PNC Bank East 185th – Monterey branch located at 609 East
185th Street.
Whereas, recently, PNC Bank notified customers by letter that it
intends to close the E. 185th – Monterey branch located at 609 East
185th Street, on the Euclid-Cleveland
border and in the middle of the East
185th Street business district; and
Whereas, the E. 185th – Monterey
branch has always been frequently
used and highly supported by the
residents of both Cleveland and
Euclid and businesses in the East
185th Street business district; and
Whereas, closing the E. 185th –
Monterey branch will mean that this
thriving business district and the
surrounding community will have
no close, convenient or easy way to
do banking at a PNC bank; and
Whereas, the East 185th Street
business district has other bank
branches in the district that will
benefit when customers have no
choice by to take their money out of
PNC and move it to another more
convenient location in the East
185th Street business district; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
the impending bank branch closing of
the PNC Bank East 185th – Monterey
branch located at 609 East 185th
Street.
Section 2. That the Clerk of the
Council is directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to Paul Clark, PNC
Regional President and to Drew R.
Martin, Northern Ohio Marketing
Manager, PNC Financial Services.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1622-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 17801
Euclid Avenue, 1st floor only.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Euclid 178, Inc., DBA Lotus Mini
Mart, 17801 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 2566678 to Lotuss Foods,
Inc., DBA Lotus Mini Mart, 17801
Euclid Avenue, 1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number
5304557; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high

34
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Euclid 178, Inc., DBA
Lotus
Mini
Mart,
17801
Euclid
Avenue, 1st floor only, Cleveland,
Ohio
44112,
Permanent
Number
2566678 to Lotuss Foods, Inc., DBA
Lotus
Mini
Mart,
17801
Euclid
Avenue, 1st floor only, Cleveland,
Ohio
44112,
Permanent
Number
5304557; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1623-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit to
7702 Spafford Road.

The City Record
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor
Permit from Kaplan Tavern, Inc.,
DBA Wooden Nickel, 6602 Spafford
Road, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4471308 to Tasha R. Townsend, 7702
Spafford
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
444105, Permanent Number 9016556;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor
Permit from Kaplan Tavern, Inc.,
DBA Wooden Nickel, 6602 Spafford
Road, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4471308 to Tasha R. Townsend, 7702
Spafford
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
444105, Permanent Number 9016556;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

1898

November 27, 2013
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1624-13.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 770
East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from 4424, LLC, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent
Number 28308080010 to Uptown Ultra
Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent
Number 9170570; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from 4424, LLC, 770 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 28308080010 to Uptown
Ultra Lounge, LLC, 770 East 185th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 9170570; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

November 27, 2013
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1077-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Bethany Baptist Church, formerly
Zion Evangelical Church, as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1078-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Central Christian Church, formerly known as Glenville Church of
Christ Disciple, as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1079-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Otto Narveleit Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1214-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the May Company Warehouse and
Delivery Station (also known as the
Buschman Corporation Building) as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1225-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Jacob Vidmar Building as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1226-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Vogt Building as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1231-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for the City’s
use located on Grand Avenue, east of
East 79th Street, to C.A.J. Properties,
LLC, or its designee, for purposes of
redevelopment.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1302-13.
By Council Members Pruitt, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an agreement to lease to
Case Western Reserve University
property located on the Kirtland
Intake Crib for the purpose of conducting wind and environmental
studies and maintaining the wind
monitoring data and equipment for a
period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Utilities,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1383-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District
One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding for the rehabilitation
of
US
Route
42,
Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road;
to accept grants from the Ohio Public
Works Commission for the improvements; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to apply for and
accept grants from the Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency and
the Federal Highway Administration;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into contracts and
agreements to design and construct
the improvements; authorizing the
Director to accept cash contributions
from public and private entities;
authorizing the Director to enter into
a Local Project Administration agree-

1899

35
ment with the Ohio Department of
Transportation; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to
make the public improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1409-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to PATDAN VA LLC to
encroach into the public rights-of-way
of Superior Avenue N.E. and East 89th
Street by installing, using, and maintaining a 5-foot wide landscape buffer
strip.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1410-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to West 25th Street
Lofts LLC to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Aust Avenue N.W. by
installing, using, and maintaining
bollards, a backup generator, an electric transformer, gas meter and utility ductbank on a 12-foot by 60-foot
utility area.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1412-13.
By Council Members Reed, Miller,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease certain property to the Council
for
Economic
Opportunities
in
Greater Cleveland at the Earle B.
Turner Recreation Center located at
11300 Miles Avenue, for the purpose of
operating a day care, for a term of one
year, with five one year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Works, the second and fourth
of which are exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

36
Ord. No. 1430-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the amendment to certain documents relating to a loan made by the
City to assist in the redevelopment of
the former Longwood Apartments
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1574-2000
passed September 25, 2000 and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1466-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Miller and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Capital Projects to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 between the
City of Cleveland and UCAA LIMITED, an Ohio limited liability company, designee of The Finch Group, Inc.
relating to the redevelopment of a
portion of the Upper Chester Target
Area.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Capital Projects,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Public Service, City
Planning, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 7, after “summary” insert “, Upper Chester Living
Plan,”; and in line 9, strike “File No.
1697-12-C” and insert “File No. 1697-12D”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1469-13.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Office of Equal
Opportunity to enter into a grant
agreement with the Greater Cleveland Partnership to contribute to the
costs of a labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1470-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for the City’s
use located at the southeast corner of
Harvard Road and Mill Pond Drive in

The City Record
the Village of Highland Hills to
PROPSTONE, LLC to construct a
behavioral hospital for mental health
and substance abuse patients.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1474-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 447.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance Number 2459A-91, passed December 14, 1992, and
Section 447.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 944-01, passed May 21, 2001,
exempting carriage operators and
businesses that operate as part of a
special event for less than three consecutive days from licensing requirements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
447.02(c), at the end, strike the period and insert “, but shall comply
with all other provisions in this
Chapter unless specifically exempted.”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
447.08(c), line 3, after “447.03”, strike
the period and insert “, unless
exempt under division (c) of Section
447.02 from the license requirements.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1491-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Public Works and
Finance to employ one or more temporary employment agencies to provide
professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the
Department of Public Works and the
Project Clean program and for the
Department of Finance, for a period
up to one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Properties and Recreation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1493-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Office of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Cleveland State University to encroach into
the public right-of-way of Euclid
Avenue and East 22nd Street by
installing, using, and maintaining a
utility duct bank.

1900

November 27, 2013
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1494-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to K & D Enterprises,
Inc. to encroach into the public rightof-way
of
Mulberry
Street
by
installing, using, and maintaining a
surface parking area.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
Read third time in full.
Passed.
Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Westbrook, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules of
Council, Council Member Cimperman
recused himself for the vote regarding Ordinance No. 1494-13.
Ord. No. 1495-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Playhouse Square
Foundation to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue,
Huron Road, and East 14th Street by
installing, using, and maintaining
four gateways and a chandelier.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1498-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement for the grinding of
pavement for the local resurfacing of
city streets and authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one
or more public improvement requirement contracts for the making of the
improvement, for a period up to eighteen months.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1499-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for contingency services for the disposal of

November 27, 2013
municipal solid waste, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1512-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Frontier Airlines, Inc. for the use and
occupancy of certain space located in
Concourse “A” in the passenger terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, for a period of two
years, with three one-year options to
renew, the last of which requires
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1513-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Servisair USA, Inc. for the use and
occupancy of certain space located in
the North Cargo Facility Building at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, for
a period of six months, with one
option to renew for an additional sixmonth period, exercisable by the
Director of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1514-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Standard Parking for the use and
occupancy of certain space located
near the upper roadway curbside
check-in area on the far north side of
the Passenger Terminal Building at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, for
a period of two years, with three oneyear options to renew, the last of
which requires additional legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1515-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to

The City Record
enter into a Lease Agreement with
United Airlines for the use and occupancy of certain space located in the
South Cargo Facility Building at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, for
a period of two years, with three oneyear options to renew, the last of
which requires additional legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1521-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts with
Gershman, Brickner & Bratton, Inc. to
provide professional services necessary to assist the City in preparing
RFPs for a long-term waste recycling
and disposal system, for the Department of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 4, after
“$170,200,” insert “which is based
upon their draft proposal dated September 19, 2013 and is placed in File
No. 1521-13-A,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1522-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept up to
two grants from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the Healthy Homes
Grant and either the Lead Hazard
Reduction Demonstration Grant or
the Lead Hazard Control Grant;
authorizing the purchase by one or
more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services;
authorizing the purchase or lease of
television and radio advertising time
and other media; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1545-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Devel-

1901

37
opment to apply for and accept a
grant from United States Environmental Protection Agency to conduct
a brownfield revolving loan program
to make loans or grants to assist with
certain environmental remediation
costs for eligible projects; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1546-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
departmental
and
Kelley
(by
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development, on behalf of the City of Cleveland, to enter into one or more agreements, or amendments to existing
agreements, with members of the
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition to
renew participation as a member for a
period up to three years.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1548-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with Victory
Midtown, LLC or its designee, to provide for the redevelopment of the
property known as the Victory Building located at 7012 Euclid Avenue,
and other associated costs necessary
to redevelop the property; to provide
for payments to the Cleveland City
School District; and to declare certain
improvements to real property to be a
public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1549-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 17 of Ordinance No. 908-12,
passed August 8, 2012, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1096-13, passed September 30, 2013, relating to the Denison
Avenue underground ductbank and
resurfacing project.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

38

The City Record

third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED

Ord. No. 1550-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1, 4, and 5 of Ordinance No.
1219-11, passed October 10, 2011, relating to a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Optima 777, LLC, as
the designee of Sage Hospitality, or
its designee, to provide for the acquisition, some demolition, and complete
renovation of the former Crowne
Plaza Hotel located at 777 St. Clair
Avenue for the Westin Cleveland
Hotel.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Read third time in full.
Passed.
Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Westbrook, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules of
Council, Council Member Cimperman
recused himself for the vote regarding Ordinance No. 1550-13.

Ord. No. 1332-13.
By Council Members Brady and
Westbrook.
An ordinance establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District on the
north and south sides of Madison
Avenue between Berea Road and W.
85th Street (Map Change No. 2446).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1379-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance changing the Use and
Area Districts of land located on the
west side of E. 62nd Street south of
Grdina Drive to Residence Industry
and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change
No. 2456).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

1902

November 27, 2013
Ord. No. 1436-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
located on the southwest side of E.
41st Street north of Superior Avenue
to Semi-Industry, a ‘C’ Area District,
and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change
No. 2460).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1461-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
located on the north side of Chester
Avenue between East 97th Street and
East 101st Street to a Local Retail
Business District, an ‘F’ Area District
and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change
No. 2465).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 22, 23, 24,
25, 26, and 27 in their entirety and
insert “easterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of
East 101st Street;
2. Strike the existing map and
insert the following new map:

November 27, 2013
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 1343-13.
By Council Members Keane, Miller,
Cleveland, Kelley and Brady (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Triskett Court N.W.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1414-13.
By Council Members Mitchell,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of East
97th Street (56.00 feet wide).
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1471-13.
By Council Members Cummins,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of West
26th Place.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1502-13.
By Council Members Dow, Miller,
Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Logan Court N.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1503-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of Mulberry Street N.W. (66.0 feet wide).
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommend-

The City Record
ed by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
Read third time in full. Adopted.
Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Those voting Yea: Council Members
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Westbrook, Zone.
Absent: Council Member Reed.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules of
Council, Council Member Cimperman
recused himself for the vote regarding Resolution No. 1503-13.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the absence of Council Member Zachary Reed is hereby authorized. Seconded by Council Member
Dow.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:13 p.m. to meet on Monday, December 2, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

39
for a period of two years, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

Patriot Industrial Technologies,
Ltd.
$3,680.00
0.435%
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Resolution No. 662-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following 2nd
tier subcontractors by Kokosing
Construction Company, Inc. under
City Contract No. PS2013*036 to provide design/build services for the
Transient Marina and associated
improvements at the North Coast
Harbor, authorized by Ordinance No.
744-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on September 24,
2012, and Board of Control Resolution No. 547-12, as amended by Resolution No. 281-13, adopted October
24, 2012 and June 12, 2013, respectively, is approved.
Subcontractor

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

American Plumbing
Contractors

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

Work
Percentage

Percentage
Amount

Non-certified
$22,850.00

Bassett Sprinkler Protection,
Inc.
Non-certified
$28,188.00
Be it further resolved that the
amount attributed to the following
subconsultant approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 281-13, adopted June 12, 2013, is amended as follows:

November 20, 2013
Subconsultant
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 20,
2013 at 10:36 a.m. with Acting Director Horvath presiding.
Present: Acting Directors Horvath, Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox,
Butler, Acting Director Gehlmann,
Directors
Southerington,
Fumich
and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Others:
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 661-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Energy Mechanical
Corp.,
Inc.
under
Contract
No.
RC2012*49 for labor and materials to
maintenance,
repair,
provide
enhancement and/or replacement of
heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, including rental,

1903

North Electric, Inc.

Percentage
Amount
12.29% DBE
$300,000.00

Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 281-13
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Resolution No. 663-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by EnviroCom Construction, LLC, under City Contract
No.
PI2013*017
for
the
public
improvement of replacing or repairing the upper level roadways at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, authorized by Ordinance No.
274-05, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 2, 2005,
and Board of Control Resolution No.

The City Record

40
101-13, as amended by Board of Control Resolution No. 371-13, as amended by Board of Control Resolution
No. 617-13, adopted March 6, 2013,
July 3, 2013 and October 23, 2013,
respectively, is approved.
Subcontractor

Percentage
Amount

Akron Insulation & Supply,
Inc.
0.03% Non-DBE
$3,450.00
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Resolution No. 664-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by EnviroCom Construction, LLC, under City Contract
No.
PI2013*054
for
the
public
improvement of constructing new
and installing replacement security
bollards and making other related
improvements at the Main Terminal
upper and lower roadways at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
authorized by Ordinance No. 748-11,
as amended by Ordinance No. 395-12,
passed by the Cleveland City Council June 20, 2011 and May 14, 2012,
respectively, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 239-13, adopted May
15, 2013, is approved.
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Work Best Electric, Inc.
0.16% - CSB/FBE
$1,066.00
KS Associates, Inc.
Non-certified To be determined
RMD Company, Inc.
Non-certified To be determined
Great Northern Fence Company
Non-certified To be determined
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Resolution No. 665-13.
By Director Flask.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Helicopter Minit-Men, Inc.
for the purchase of Aviation Maintenance, items 1-3, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of the execution of a contract, with two (2)
one year options to renew, received
on August 9, 2013, under the authority of Section 181.101, Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$141,750.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
necessary for the specified items.

The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under the delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Resolution No. 666-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council October 25,
1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Land Reutilization
Program,
the
City
has
acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 10813-082, 108-13-188, 108-14-008, 108-29009, 108-30-022, 108-31-009, 108-31-015,
108-31-016, 109-21-083, and 110-22-009;
Now, be it resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1112-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
September 23, 2013, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
directed to convey certain temporary
and certain perpetual non-exclusive
easements in the portions of Permanent Parcel Nos. 108-13-082, 108-13188, 108-14-008, 108-29-009, 108-30-022,
108-31-009, 108-31-015, 108-31-016, 10921-083, and 110-22-009 more fully
described in Ord. No. 1112-13, to the
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, subject to the conditions stated in Ordinance No. 1112-13, for the
purpose of construction and maintenance of its Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project, for a
price of $7,975.00.
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
Resolution No. 667-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council October 25,
1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Land Reutilization
Program,
the
City
has
acquired Permanent Parcel No. 11024-024 located on East 123rd Street;
and
Whereas, Dominion East Ohio Gas
(“Dominion”) desires an easement
across Permanent Parcel No. 110-24024 to reconstruct and maintain its
gas pipeline along East 123rd Street;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1103-13,
passed by the Cleveland City Council September 23, 2013, authorized
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies by and at the direction of
the Board of Control to convey, and
the Director of Community Development to execute a deed of easement
granting Dominion certain easement

1904

November 27, 2013
rights in a portion of Permanent
Parcel No. 110-24-024 at a price to be
determined by the Board of Control;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1103-13, passed by the Cleveland
City Council on September 23, 2013,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is directed to convey a perpetual, non-exclusive easement in
the portion of Permanent Parcel No.
110-24-024 more fully described in
Ordinance No. 1103-13, to Dominion
East Ohio Gas to allow Dominion to
reconstruct and to maintain its gas
pipeline along East 123 Street.
Be it further resolved that the
price to be paid by Dominion for the
above-referenced easement is determined to be $300.00.
Yeas: Acting Directors Horvath,
Shaw, Szabo, Directors Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Southerington, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Rush and Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2013
12/6/13 – 12/12/13

Announ- Exam Classi- Exam
cement Method fication
No.
124 EE

Administrative
Manager

Type

N/C

The City Record

November 27, 2013
125 EE

126 EE

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 124

Airport
Maintenance
SuperintendentBuilding

N/C

Airport Operations
Agent III
Open

127 EE

Assistant
Administrator

128 EE

Bureau Manager Building
N/C

N/C

129 EE

Commissioner of
Environment
N/C

130 EE

Manager of
Marketing

ADMINISTRATIVE
(NON-COMP)

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $27,193.55 - $101,816.22 per Year.

N/C

Public Health
Sanitarian I

Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.

properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

MANAGER

FILING OF APPLICATION
131 EE

41

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree is
required. Four years of full time paid
management or administrative experience is required. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking.) A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 125

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

AIRPORT MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT – BUILDING (NONCOMP)

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

SALARY
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, is
responsible for planning, managing,
coordinating, and administering all
activities and personnel of such staff
positions as administration, citizen
participation, research, and finance,
and supervises such personnel as are
assigned to specific functions in the
performance of the necessary duties.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and

1905

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,092.80 - $63,135.07 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her

The City Record

42
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, coordinates and oversees the activities of
one of the airport maintenance sections including Building Maintenance, Field Maintenance, or Custodial Services. Supervises shift activities
and serves as the Manager’s back-up
in his/her absence. Prioritizes and
distributes work orders to section
front-line leadership. Assists with
developing, managing, and monitoring preventive and other maintenance programs. Orders equipment
and supplies, manages requisitions
and tallies, and coordinates maintenance activities with outside contractors and City personnel. Assists with
developing and implementing policies and procedures. Promotes and
ensures compliance with occupational health and safety policies and procedures. Supervises assigned staff’s
performance. Develops and monitors
employee work plans. Counsels,
coaches, and instructs employees and
prepares performance evaluations.
Assists with staff hires, promotions,
and disciplines, when appropriate.
Promotes and ensures compliance
with occupational health and safety
policies, procedures, and programs.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
Building - A High School Diploma or
GED is required. Three (3) years of
full-time paid facilities and/or building maintenance supervisory experience which includes plumbing, carpentry/masonry, mechanical systems, and painting in a commercial
and/or industrial facility is required.
Effective communication and leadership skills are required. A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must be able to lift 30 pounds. Contract preparation knowledge and proficient
administrative/computer
(Microsoft Office) skills are preferred.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,

licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 126
AIRPORT OPERATIONS AGENT III
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $55,788.51 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
DECEMBER 26, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the general supervision of the
Manager of Airport Operations,
assists in the operational management of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport or Burke Lakefront
Airport to maintain the airport operating certificate. Assists airport management with the implementation of
the policies of the Department of Port
Control as necessary. Supervises the
work performed by Airport Operations Agents I and II. Guides, trains,

1906

November 27, 2013
and
supports
Operations
staff.
Assigns daily shift duties to Agents.
Assists the shift Superintendent with
preparation of work and staffing
schedules for the Operations office.
Acts in the capacity of an Airport
Operations Agent when the shift
Superintendent is on duty. Maintains
a current extended knowledge base of
applicable Federal Aviation Regulations and FAA Advisory circulars.
Ensures compliance with applicable
Reviews
operations
regulations.
report of preceding shift, special
instructions, and nature of field conditions. Assists with the dissemination of field condition information.
Operates radio and telephone equipment.
Communicates
with
and
answers questions from public on airport operations and conditions. May
serve as liaison for airlines and airport management concerning operations matters. Assembles weather
related forecasts and disseminates
information to assist in establishing
proper winter operations or other
weather related response. Helps to
coordinate
movement
of
snow
removal crews, crash and rescue
crews, construction activity, and
vehicular movement activity. Monitors aircraft movement. Communicates with air carriers, FAA ATC, airport, and other government entities
as required. Escorts emergency, construction, and other approved vehicles as required. Uses radio, crash
phones, and other equipment to communicate with staff, supervision, airlines/aircraft,
airfield
vehicles,
police, Air Traffic Control Tower
(ATCT)
and
other
entities
as
required. Follows instructions and
commands as required. Makes regular patrols and physical inspections
of field, airfield, and terminal conditions. Notes and reports safety violations, discrepancies potentially hazardous conditions, as well as operational and maintenance problems in
landing, hangar, ramp, roadways, terminal areas, and other airport properties. Conducts wildlife patrols, performing wildlife hazing and reduction procedures as necessary which
may require the use of a pyrotechnic
weapon and/or shotgun. May be
required to remove debris or dead
wildlife from aircraft operating
areas. Responds to and assists with
emergency situations as directed by
the
Operations
Superintendent.
Assumes initial control of emergency
operations until arrival of higher
authority. Escorts emergency, construction, and other approved vehicles as required. Utilizes devices and
instruments to assess problems and
conditions on airfield. Monitors security, fire, weather radar, as well as
equipment and surface condition
monitoring systems for alarms and
makes notifications and reports on
conditions as necessary. Logs and
bills incoming transient aircraft for
landing fees. Reviews daily log
entries and verifies completion of
shift log, inspection and incident
reports, and records at close of shift.
Maintains files. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

The City Record

November 27, 2013
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Aviation, Airport Management, or
related field from an accredited college or university is required. Four
years of full time paid experience as
an airport operations agent, two of
which may be in an airport operations-related field, is required. (Substitution: One year of experience in an
Airport Operations office or airport
operations-related experience may be
substituted for each year of college
education lacking.) One year of
supervisory experience is preferred.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required. Must be able to type and
possess general computer skills
including Microsoft Office Suite products. Must successfully complete a
Transportation Security Administration (TSA) fingerprint-based criminal history records check and employment background check. Must be able
to lift and carry 50 pounds. Must be
willing to work in and out of doors in
all weather conditions in a 24-hour
operation, including a non-standard
work week.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 127
ASSISTANT
(NON-COMP)

ADMINISTRATOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $56,847.22 per Year.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.

43
experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)
Must be able to operate a personal
with
Microsoft
Office
computer
Suites.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, performs
major daily and project/program
based administrative duties. Recommends
and
administers
divisional/departmental policies and
procedures. Prepares regular and special
reports
related
to
divisional/departmental operations.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business/Public Relations or closely
related field from a four-year accredited college or university is required.
Two years of full time paid experience in government or private industry office administration is required.
(Substitution: Two years of full time

1907

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 128
BUREAU MANAGER - BUILDING
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $26,797.06 - $82,152.51 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, JANUARY
2, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS

The City Record

44
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

land, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

November 27, 2013
TION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

SALARY
Under the general direction of the
Commissioner of Code Enforcement,
assists with the administration of the
business processes associated with
the Construction Bureau and with the
general administration of the Division. Supervises the inspection staff
in the inspection of new and existing
structures. Supervises actions undertaken pursuant to the enforcement of
the housing, building, and zoning
codes. Conducts field inspections and
develops strategies as necessary to
resolve non-routine situations involving real property in the City of Cleveland and department staff. Coordinates structure surveys as necessary.
Represents the department to the
external community and before
boards, committees, and courts of law.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Ten years of full time paid
combined experience in the constructions trades in addition to building
property inspection for work governed by the Ohio Building Code is
required. Two years of supervisory
experience is also required. Must be
adequately proficient in Microsoft
Office Suites. Strong organizational
and
communication
skills
are
required. Must be familiar with and
able to exhibit knowledge of the Ohio
Building and Residential Codes. A
knowledge of the Cleveland Building,
Residential, and Zoning Codes is preferred. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must have full
Certification as an Ohio Board of
Building Standards Building Inspector as well as an Ohio Residential
Building Official. An Ohio Building
Official Certification is preferred.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $42,758.15 - $137,860.74 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, JANUARY
2, 2014.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 2014.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 130

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION

COMMISSIONER OF ENVIRONMENT
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleve-

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINA-

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 129

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

Under administrative direction, oversees all activities performed within
the Division of Environment. Plans,
manages, and implements divisional
programs and policies. Develops environmental policy recommendations.
Provides direction for divisional
activities. Directly or indirectly
supervises divisional personnel. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Environmental Health/Management
or directly related field from an
accredited four year college or university is required, a Master’s Degree
is preferred. Seven years of full time
paid progressively responsible environmental construction or technical
management experience is required,
three years of which includes program management and development.
(Substitution: Two years of experience may substitute for each year of
college education lacking.)

1908

MANAGER OF MARKETING (NONCOMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,214.95 - $103,869.21 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

November 27, 2013
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under
administrative
direction,
assists in the marketing, promotion,
and implementation of divisional or
departmental activities and programs. Conducts sales presentations.
Attends trade shows related to work
unit activities and programs. Maintains liaison with other organizations, prospective clients, and suppliers. Performs other job-related duties
as required. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Marketing, Business Administration, or
related field from an accredited four
year college or university is required.
Four years of full time paid marketing experience is required. (Substitution: Two years of full time experience may substitute for each year of
college education lacking.) A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 131
PUBLIC HEALTH SANITARIAN I
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

The City Record
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.48 - $21.89 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
DECEMBER 12, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Investigates complaints of unsanitary conditions in dwellings, alleys,
vacant lots, or business establishments. Inspects transients’ lodging
and trailer camps for overcrowding,
defective plumbing, fire hazards and
related
undesirable
conditions.
Enforces ordinance pertaining to animal vectors of disease. Maintains sanitary surveillance of swimming pools,
bathing beaches, and other recreational facilities. Performs other jobrelate duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

45
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must be able to lift and carry a minimum of 30 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
November 27, 2013

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2013
9:30 A.M.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

Calendar No. 13-246: 10914 Hulda
Avenue (Ward 6)
Clarence Terrell, owner, appeals
for an addition and parking lot to a
tavern located on a corner parcel in
a B1 Two-Family District; a nonconforming use in the provisions of
Section 337.03 and first permitted in
a Local Retail Business District. A
lot consolidation is required and a
change, enlargement or expansion
nonconforming
use
requires
of
approval of the Cleveland Board of
Zoning Appeals pursuant to Section
359.01.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required, an Associate’s Degree from
an accredited college or university is
preferred. One year of full time paid
experience working in the Environmental Health field as well as a thorough knowledge of health code ordinances is required. A valid State of

Calendar No. 13-247: 4414-20 Pearl
Road (Ward 13)
Brian Bodach, owner, appeals to
change use from retail to three (3)
residential units in an existing onestory brick building located on a lot
size of 5,920 square feet in a C1
Local
Retail
Business
District;

1909

The City Record

46
proposing a 3,750 square foot residential building in a “C” area district, contrary to Section 355.04(a)
that limits the maximum gross floor
area for a residential building to
one-half the lot size, allowing 2,960
square feet; and contrary to Sections
352.08-12, no landscaping is provided
where an 8 foot wide landscaped
transition strip providing 75% opacity is required along the rear property line where the use abuts a TwoFamily District; and under the provisions in Section 352.07(b)(2) a use
lawfully existing prior to landscaping ordinance enactment that does
not conform to all applicable landscaping requirements may continue,
except that a Board of Zoning
Appeals determination whether to
allow a continuation of the nonconformity is required, prior to issuance
of a Building Permit or Certificate
of Occupancy for a change of use.
Calendar No. 13-251: 4345 State Road
(Ward 13)
St.
Mary
of
Egypt
Orthodox
Monastery,
owner,
appeals
to
change use of a nonconforming
warehouse building to a food warehouse and food distribution center,
located on a 47.5' x 120' parcel in
a C2 General Retail Business District; the existing warehouse/storage use nonconforming and first
permitted in a Semi-Industry District; and a lack of parking that
meets the requirement for a parking
area that equals 10% of floor area
and the proposed food distribution
on
site
constitutes
additional/expanded
use,
and
a
change, enlargement or expansion
of
nonconforming
use
requires
approval of the Cleveland Board of
Zoning Appeals pursuant to Section
359.01.
Calendar No. 13-252: 12716 Buckeye
Road (Ward 4)
Laniece Davis, owner appeals to
establish use as a restaurant a onestory building on a 75' x 160' corner parcel located in a C2 Residence
Office District; a use not permitted
by the restrictions under Section
337.10 and first being permitted in a
Local Retail Business District; and
when a property that is nonconforming in required landscaping is
seeking a change in use, a determination of the Board of Zoning
Appeals is required as to whether
the nonconformity may continue
before a permit can be issued. Nonconformity consists with a lack of
an 8 feet wide landscaped transition
strip providing 75% year-round opacity where the property abuts a TwoFamily District pursuant to Section
35208-12 in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-253: 4600 West 160th
Street (Ward 18)
MWTP LLC, owner, appeals to
convert an existing static 14' x 48'
billboard sign to automatic changeable copy, electronic image, sign
face, located on an acreage parcel
in a B3 General Industry District;
contrary to the provisions under Section 350.10(j) that billboards shall
not include automatic changeable
copy signs, i.e., that is, electronic
message centers.
Secretary

November 27, 2013

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, November 25, 2013, the following appeals
were scheduled for hearing before
the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.
The
following
DENIED:
None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 13-160: 1616 West 25th
Street
Ojala Properties, LLC and Maria
appealed
from
a
plan
Keckan
approval
and
Permit
B13023272
issued to Clear Channel Outdoor by
the Department of Building and
Housing for repair of a billboard.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-238: 4770 Broadview
Road postponed to December 30,
2013.
Calendar No. 13-242: 1400 Brookpark
Road postponed to December 30,
2013.
Calendar No. 13-206-211: 1819 Abbey
Avenue / Parcels A-1 / A-6 postponed from December 2, 2013 to
February 24, 2014
Calendar No. 13-244: 2169 West 31st
Street postponed from December
2, 2013 to January 21, 2014
Calendar No. 13-228: 4571 Niessen Ct.
postponement rescheduled from
December 30, 2013 to December 9,
2013.
Calendar No. 13-229: 4575 Niessen Ct.
postponement rescheduled from
December 30, 2013 to December 9,
2013.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on November 18, 2013
were adopted and approved on
November 25, 2013.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-232: 777 East 185th
Street
John Fuduric appealed to change
use to a brewery for wholesale distribution and retail carry out sales
of beer in a C1 Local Retail Business District.

dence with attached garage in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-240: 1881 West 44th
Street
Michael Flickinger appealed to
erect a two-story single family residence with attached garage in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-241: 1887 West 44th
Street
Debbie Kraus prospective purchaser of a City of Cleveland Land
Bank parcel, appealed to erect a
two-story single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 13-222: 1843 Fulton
Road
Alex Preedy appealed to construct
a carport, bicycle storage and trash
enclosure on a triangular parcel in
a B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-139: 2843 Franklin
Boulevard
Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, owner, and Welcome
House,
Incorporated,
prospective
purchaser, appealed to convert an
existing office and warehouse building to a use for 24 apartments with
a 15 space accessory, off-street parking lot in a B1 Two-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
November 20, 2013
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-210-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
7014 Colgate Avenue (Front) from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated July 17, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for any additional time and
to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *

Calendar
No.
13-239:
4305
John
Avenue
Michael Flickinger appealed to
erect a two-story single family resi-

1910

Docket A-211-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units

November 27, 2013
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3021 West 11th Street (aka 3023
West 11th Street (Front) from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated July 17, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for any additional time and
to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *

The City Record
Docket A-222-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3809 West 117th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated July 30, 2013
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to complete abatement of the violations, the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *

Docket A-218-13.
RE: Appeal of Catherine Carter &
Quentin Carter, Owners of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence One & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3579 East 116th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated November 30, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for any additional time
because there is no possibility of
renovation by the Appellants, and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-220-13.
RE: Appeal of George Redcross,
Owner of the R-2 Residential — Nontransient;
Apartments
(Shared
Egress)
Two
Story
Masonry
Walls/Wood Property, located on
the premises known as 1442 East
115th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated August 6,
2013 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

Docket A-223-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
2070
West
65th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated July 30, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for any additional time and
to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-224-13.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
7012 Colgate Avenue (Rear) (aka
7014
Colgate
Avenue)
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated June 30, 2013 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for any additional time and
to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

47
Factory — Low Hazard (Non-combustibles) Property, located on the
premises known as 275 East 131st
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated August 12, 2013, and from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
August 20, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to submit a plan and obtain an
approved demolition permit with the
City, and six (6) months to complete
abatement, by demolishing the property; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-226-13.
RE: Appeal of Fred Dawson,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3719 Park Place Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
09, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-226-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 4, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-228-13.
RE: Appeal of Shana McDade,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Two-Family
One/half Story Frame Property and
One Story Garage — Detached;
Wood Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 6707 Schaefer Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE &
GARAGE, dated August 27, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY any
request for additional time and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that based
upon testimony and photographic
evidence, that the property is not
suitable for renovation. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *

*    *    *
Docket A-225-13.
RE: Appeal of 275 East 131st
Street Group LLC, Owner of the F-2

1911

Docket A-230-13.
RE: Appeal of Francita Salem,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses —
Multiple Uses In One Building Two

The City Record

48
& One/half Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
4053 Marvin Avenue from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, and a CONDEMNATION ORDER — GARAGE, dated
August 12, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of all violations on the property, the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-231-13.
RE: Appeal of K and W C/O Littie Vanessa Crumb, Owner of the
Two Dwelling Units Two-Family
Residence Two Story Frame Property
and
One
Story
Garage
—
Detached; Wood Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
10714 Hathaway Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
August 6, 2012 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property, under the existing permits,
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, with the
understanding that the Appellant
will obtain a garage permit during
that period of time for the work on
the garage. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-232-13.
RE: Appeal of Kinds of the
Future, Owner of the MXD Mixed
Uses — Multiple Uses In One Building Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 4323 Clark Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
August 9, 2013, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-232-18 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to require that the safety systems required by the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code must be
installed and approved before occupancy of the building is permitted.
The property is REMANDED at this
time to the Division of Fire for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-234-13.
RE: Appeal of Antoinette Dixon,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Frame Property, located on the premises known as 952
Stevenson Road from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated August 5,
2013 of the Director of the Department
of
Building
and
Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT THE
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations, the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-235-13.
RE: Appeal of John Lewis, Owner
of the H-3 High Hazard — Combustibles One Story Masonry Property, located on the premises known
as 16917 Euclid Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL USE, dated
August 7, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to submit plans and obtain a Certificate of Occupancy for the premises, the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

*    *    *
*    *    *
Docket A-233-13.
RE: Appeal of Dennis Althar C/O
Leonard Remmer, Owner /Tenant of
the Property, located on the premises known as 5437 Broadway Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE CODE, dated August 26, 2013,
of the Chief of the Division of Fire

Docket A-236-13.
RE: Appeal of JBL Funding,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3564 West 63rd Street from a CON-

1912

November 27, 2013
DEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 23, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete procurement of all violations and one hundred eighty
(180) days to complete abatement of
all violations, noting that failure to
meet
any
date
will
result
in
REMANDING the property immediately to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-237-13.
RE: Appeal of Charles P. Woller,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3218 West 110th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS, dated July
10, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-237-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 18, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-238-13.
RE: Appeal of Judith L. Scott,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3218 West 110th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
10, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-238-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 18, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-239-13.
RE: Appeal of Jesus Laboy, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Three Story Wood
Property, located on the premises
known as 5709 Clark Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
August 13, 2013 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-239-13 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 18, 2013.
*    *    *
Docket A-279-13.
RE:
Appeal
of
Don
Dickson,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 2306 West

The City Record

November 27, 2013
17th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated November 12, 2013 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that
sprinklers be installed on both sides
of the lobby glass to achieve adequate protection and to permit the
exits to be as they are proposed,
with the responsibility of the owner
to maintain the walkways, the
stairs and roof access free from
snow. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

FROM:….to grant the variance
requested and to require the Appellant to sprinkle the lowest level of
the Building.….
TO:….not require any fire suppression sprinklers in accordance
with Section 101.2 Exceptions: 2 (a)
of the 2013 Residential Code of Ohio,
but to re-quire that the residence be
fully
protected
with
hard-wired
smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors.….
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
November 6, 2013
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

A-172-13 — Neil T. Clough
A-173-13 — Neil T. Clough
A-174-13 — Neil T. Clough
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

PUBLIC NOTICE
CLEVELAND PUBLIC
RECORDS COMMITTEE
Public notice is hereby given that
the
City
of
Cleveland
Public
Records Committee will hold a Regular Meeting on Friday, December 6,
2013 in the City Law Department
South Conference Room, 601 Lakeside Avenue East, Room 106, Cleveland, Ohio commencing at 9:00 a.m.,
or as soon thereafter as possible.
Maureen Harper, Chair

A-180-13 — Robert C. Johnson
A-193-13 — B&B Wrecking & Excavating
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.

November 27, 2013

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

*    *    *
NONE
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-209-13 —
A-214-13 —
A-215-13 —
A-263-13 —
(AMENDED)

Karen O’Toole
HSBC Bank USA
Eleanor E. Taylor
Kamis Properties LLC

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None.
*    *    *
AMENDED RESOLUTION:
Docket A-263-13.
Kamis Properties
Columbus Road:

LLC

—

1960

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner

1913

49
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013
File No. 182-13 — Peterbilt McNielus
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 1330A-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 6,
2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2013 AT
10:00
A.M.
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
File No. 183-13 — Transmission
Water Main Renewal Phase I, for
the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 444-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 7, 2010.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
NO
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2013 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who

The City Record

50
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
November 20, 2013 and November 27, 2013
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2013
File No. 181-13 — Mail Extraction
Machines (Re-Bid), for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2013 AT
11:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 2ND
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
November 20, 2013 and November 27, 2013
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2014
File No. 184-13 — 1201 Lakeside
Avenue Skylight Restoration and
Partial Roof Replacement, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 262-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 14, 2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
ONLY
IN
($100.00)
DOLLARS
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013
AT 2:30 P.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
November 20, 2013 and November 27, 2013
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2013
File No. 188-13 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Clean The West
Side Market (Re-Bid), for the
Division of West Side Market,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2013
AT 1:00 P.M. THE WESTSIDE
MARKET, WESTSIDE MARKET
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
2ND
FLOOR,
1979
WEST
25TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44113.
November 27, 2013 and December 4, 2013

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2013
File No. 185-13 — Nottingham Filter
Building Roof Replacement Project No. 659, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 262-12, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 14,
2012.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
IN
ONLY
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY,
DECEMBER 6, 2013 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING,
NOTTINGHAM
WATER
WORKS PLANT, 1230 CHARDON
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44117.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 186-13 — Large Valve
Renewal Phase I, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 444-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 7, 2010.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2013
AT 2:30 P.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
November 27, 2013 and December 4, 2013
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2014
File No. 187-13 — ART Gallery Dedication Project, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of

1914

November 27, 2013
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 359-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 2, 2005.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
DECEMBER
12,
2013 AT 10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
RECEIVING
BUILDING, CLEVELAND PLUS
CONFERENCE
ROOM
(BAGGAGE LEVEL IN TERMINAL),
5300 RIVERSIDE ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44181.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
November 27, 2013 and December 4, 2013
and December 11, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1557-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman and Cummins.
An emergency resolution supporting Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation Program application to
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for the Lower Big Creek Project in
the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
recognizes the wishes to preserve
open space, protect water quality,
and create opportunities for passive
recreation within the city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, Western Reserve Land
Conservancy intends to apply for
Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation
Program
funds
to
acquire
approximately 25 acres of land
located in the City of Cleveland,
known as the Lower Big Creek Project (the “Project’); and
Whereas, acquisition of this property will help preserve open space
and improve water quality within
the Big Creek Watershed; and
Whereas, this Project will contribute to a network of green space
already protected in the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Western Reserve
Land Conservancy’s application to
the Ohio Public Works Commission,
or this Council’s support thereof,
does not commit the City of Cleveland to provide monetary support or
any other monetary or non-monetary
obligation in furtherance of the Project.; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,

November 27, 2013
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s Clean Ohio Green Space
Conservation Program application to
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for the Lower Big Creek Project in the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Western Reserve Land Conservancy
and the Ohio Public Works Commission.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Res. No. 1558-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s application to the NorthCoast Brownfield Assessment Coalition Program for funds to complete
the Phase I and II environmental
assessments
for
the
Henninger
Landfill property, approximately 25
acres on Pearl Road in the Old
Brooklyn Neighborhood of Cleveland.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports the Western Reserve Land
Conservancy’s application to the
NorthCoast Brownfield Assessment
Coalition Program for funds to complete the Phase I and II environmental assessments for the Henninger
Landfill property, approximately 25
acres on Pearl Road in the Old Brooklyn Neighborhood of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Western Reserve Land Conservancy,
the NorthCoast Brownfield Assessment Coalition Program and the
Cuyahoga County Department of
Development.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Res. No. 1559-13.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
D1 and D2 Liquor Permit to 17109
Lorain Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D1 and D2
Liquor Permit from J & S Rocco
Pizza, LLC, 14304 Puritas Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 4182952 to E B Pizza, LLC,
Guys
Pizza,
17109
Lorain
DBA
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 23840410005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D1 and D2 Liquor Permit
from J & S Rocco Pizza, LLC, 14304
Puritas Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44135, Permanent Number 4182952 to
E B Pizza, LLC, DBA Guys Pizza,
17109 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
23840410005; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

1915

51
Res. No. 1560-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1295 Old River Road and
repealing
Resolution
No.
915-13,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to 1057, Inc.,
The Odeon, 1295 Old River Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 65492620002 by Resolution
No. 915-13, adopted by the Council on
July 10, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to 1057, Inc., The
Odeon, 1295 Old River Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
65492620002, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 91513, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Res. No. 1561-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor
Permit
at
2317
Denison
Avenue, 1st floor front and basement, and repealing Resolution No.
1062-13, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a Transfer of Ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
2317 Denison Avenue by Resolution
No. 1062-13 adopted by the Council
on August 14, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a the
transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at Mober
Group, LLC, 2317 Denison Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 6072619, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1062-13, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.

52
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1229-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of repairing and
improving the Cleveland Municipal
Parking Lot gates and replacing
signage; and authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing and
improving the Cleveland Municipal
Parking Lot gates, including but not
limited to, refurbishing the main
entrance booths; installing a pay station with a card reader, installing barrier gate operators, demolishing and
constructing new exit gates and
replacing signage, for the Division of
Parking,
Department
of
Public
Works, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 66 SF 013, Request No. RQS 7008,
RL 2013-138.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1232-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Education
for the 2014 Summer Food Service
Program; authorizing the purchase
by requirement contract of breakfasts and lunches and for food, food
products, beverages, condiments and
paper products to implement the
grant, for the Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works;
and authorizing the Director to contract with various non-profit organizations for the implementation of
the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $400,000.00, from the Ohio
Department of Education, to conduct
the 2014 Summer Food Service Program for the purposes described in
the summary; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the summary for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1232-13-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of unitized breakfasts and
lunches for the breakfast and lunch
program to be served at City recreation centers and at various non-profit agencies and other agencies or
recreation facilities as determined by
the Director, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Recreation, Department of Public
Works. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That provided the agencies meet the eligibility requirements
of the Ohio Department of Education,
the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one or more written
contracts with the various non-profit
organizations to implement this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
grant period for the necessary items
of various natural foods, food products, beverages, condiments and
paper products, to be served as part of
the meal program at Camp George L.

1916

November 27, 2013
Forbes, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Public
Works. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 181.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, bidders for
the contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall be required to
submit a bid bond in the amount of
five percent of the amount of the bid,
as required by United States Treasury
Circular 570.
Section 9. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1408-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1604-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to
land reutilization programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 183.021 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1604-11, passed December 5, 2011,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 183.021 Land Reutilization
Programs
(a) Residential Land Bank.
(1) The Director of Community
Development shall administer a Land

November 27, 2013
Reutilization Program for residential
property established under RC Chapter 5722 and adopted and implemented
by Ordinance 2076-76, passed October
25, 1976, and shall perform the duties
specified in RC 5722.06. Land acquired
as part of the Land Reutilization Program for residential property may be
referred to as Residential Land Bank
property.
(2) If Residential Land Bank property is sold, it shall be sold according
to the terms of RC Chapter 5722, without competitive bidding, for not less
than fair market value, with reference to such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants to assure
the effective reutilization of the land,
as the Board of Control shall determine and authorize, and the land
shall be conveyed notwithstanding
any other provisions of the Codified
Ordinances to the contrary.
(3) If a member of Council does not
disapprove or request a hold in writing to the Director of Community
Development within forty-five (45)
days of notification of a proposed
sale, easement conveyance, or lease
of a property in the Residential Land
Bank in his or her ward then that
process described in this section shall
be used for the sale, easement conveyance, or lease of the property in
his or her ward. Within forty-five (45)
days of notification, a member of
Council may submit a written request
for one (1) additional thirty (30) day
extension.
(4) The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies when directed by the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to sell or lease any land
in the Residential Land Bank if the
purchaser of the land is neither tax
delinquent nor has any existing
Building or Housing Code violations
on property owned in the City. Each
instrument of conveyance shall contain provisions and use restrictions as
Council deems necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the
neighborhood and the City.
(5) The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies when directed by the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to convey easement
interests in any land in the Residential Land Bank at a price determined
to be Fair Market Value by the Board
of Control taking into account the
nature of the easement and the easement shall be conveyed notwithstanding any other provision of the Codified Ordinances to the contrary.
(6) That the conveyance of easement interests shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Community Development
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The deed of easement shall contain
such other terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines to be
necessary to protect and benefit the
City.
(7) Before the acquisition of any
residential property with multiple
parcels into the Residential Land
Bank, the Director of Community
Development shall conduct all appropriate inquiries in accordance with
rules adopted by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency
under the requirements of the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act (Pub. L. No.
107-118, 115 stat. 2356).
(b) Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank.

The City Record
(1) The Director of Economic
Development shall administer a Land
Reutilization Program for industrial
and commercial property established
under RC Chapter 5722 and adopted
and implemented by Ordinance 207676, passed October 25, 1976, and shall
perform the duties specified in RC
5722.06. Land, including residential
properties, acquired as part of the
Land Reutilization Program for
industrial and commercial property
may be referred to as Industrial-Commercial Land Bank property.
(2) If Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank property is sold, it shall be sold
according to the terms of RC Chapter
5722, without competitive bidding, for
not less than fair market value, with
reference to such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants to
assure the effective reutilization of
the land, as the Board of Control shall
determine and authorize, and the land
shall be conveyed notwithstanding
any other provisions of the Codified
Ordinances to the contrary.
(3) If a member of Council does not
disapprove or request a hold in writing to the Director of Economic Development within forty-five (45) days of
notification of a proposed sale, easement conveyance, or lease of a property in the Industrial-Commercial
Land Bank in his or her ward then
that process described in this section
shall be used for the sale, easement
conveyance, or lease of the property
in his or her ward. Within forty-five
(45) days of notification, a member of
Council may submit a written request
for one (1) additional thirty (30) day
extension.
(4) The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies when directed by the
Director of Economic Development is
authorized to sell or lease any land in
the
Industrial-Commercial
Land
Bank if the purchaser of the land is
neither tax delinquent nor has any
existing Building or Housing Code
violations on property owned in the
City. Each instrument of conveyance
shall contain provisions and use
restrictions as Council deems necessary or appropriate to protect the
interests of the neighborhood and the
City.
(5) The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies when directed by the
Director of Economic Development is
authorized to convey easement interests in any land in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank at a price determined to be Fair Market Value by the
Board of Control taking into account
the nature of the easement and the
easement shall be conveyed notwithstanding any other provision of the
Codified Ordinances to the contrary.
(6) That the conveyance of easement interests shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Economic Development on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed of easement shall contain such
other terms and conditions that the
Director of Law determines to be necessary to protect and benefit the City.
(7) Before the acquisition of any
industrial or commercial property
into the Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank, the Director of Economic
Development shall conduct all appropriate inquiries in accordance with
rules adopted by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency
under the requirements of the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act (Pub. L. No.
107-118, 115 stat. 2356).

1917

53
(8) The Director of Economic
Development is authorized to deposit
the proceeds from the sale of any
industrial or commercial property
from the Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank into Special Revenue Fund No.
17 SF 965. This fund shall be used for
costs associated with acquisition,
maintenance, remediation, and disposition of Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank property including costs for
insurance and for activities related to
the recovery of costs incurred on
these properties. Further, funds
received by the City of Cleveland as a
result of direct insurance claim settlements, cost recovery efforts initiated
by the Land Reutilization Program
for industrial and commercial property, demolition or remediation actions
as a result of the Program, and
grants, donations or any other
sources pledged to the Program shall
be deposited in Special Revenue Fund
No. 17 SF 965.
(9) The Director of Economic
Development is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City of Cleveland all
necessary documents to employ and
pay all fees for services necessary,
including agents to conduct acquisition activities for the acquisition,
maintenance, remediation and disposition of the property and to comply
with any applicable Federal or state
regulatory requirements, as well as to
execute documents for the purchase
of insurance on the property. The
costs of these contracts shall be paid
from Fund 17 SF 965 and from any
other funds or subfunds which are
appropriated for this use.
(10) The Director of Economic
Development is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City of Cleveland all
necessary documents to secure a No
Further Action Letter for property
from Ohio EPA, including such
covenants, declarations, or restrictions upon the property are required.
Section 2. That existing Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1604-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1463-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$4,830,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
cemetery facilities, buildings, structures and grounds and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Four Million Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars
($4,830,000)
(the
“Series 2013B-3 Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”);
and

54
Whereas, the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds is at least five years
and that the maximum maturity of
the Series 2013B-3 Bonds is 30 years,
a copy of which is contained in File
No. 1463-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
hereof that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2013B-3
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Four Million
Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars ($4,830,000) for the purpose of
providing funds to improve municipal
cemetery facilities, buildings, structures and grounds by constructing,
reconstructing, installing, enlarging,
renovating, and rehabilitating buildings, structures and grounds, including clearing, grading and excavating
land, reconstructing, installing, renovating, and rehabilitating septic system, drainage and sewer facilities,
installing access roadways including
any necessary bridges and culverts,
installing utility lines, laying out and
numbering burial plots, constructing
and reconstructing retaining walls,
gates and fences, acquiring and
installing fences, gates, signage,
waste receptacles and other fixtures,
and planting and landscaping, together with all necessary and incidental
appurtenances and the acquisition of
any required real estate and interests
in real estate, and to pay any capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013B3 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section  1 hereof. The Series 2013B-3
Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on

The City Record
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be issued
and secured under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
2008, between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on May 30, 2013 (the “Series 2013A
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2013B-3
Bonds and any additional bonds
issued under the Indenture are collectively referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013B3 Bonds. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds may
be issued in one or more series or subseries. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds may
be delivered only in book-entry form,

1918

November 27, 2013
and if so delivered, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Indenture and the Fifth Supplement
identified in Section 7. The Series
2013B-3 Bonds shall be designated
“Cemeteries Improvement Bonds,
Series 2013B-3” or may contain such
other designation as provided in the
Certificate of Award identified below.
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Series 2013B-3 Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any whole multiple
thereof. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance. The Series
2013B-3 Bonds shall be signed by officials of the City in the manner set
forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013B3 Bonds and the sale of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the yield (determined in accordance with the arbitrage provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended) of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds shall not exceed seven per cent
(7.00%) per year. Interest on the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15, or such other dates specified in
the Certificate of Award (the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds shall be a date no later than
thirty (30) years from a date twelve
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of principal is made for the Series 2013B-3
Bonds, as set forth in the Certificate
of Award. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2013B-3 Bonds
or as term Series 2013B-3 Bonds
payable prior to stated maturity pursuant to sinking fund redemption
(the “Term Bonds”). The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be issued
as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100 percent of the
principal amount redeemed, plus

November 27, 2013
interest accrued to the redemption
date, on the Mandatory Redemption
Dates. The aggregate of the moneys
to be deposited with the Trustee for
payment of principal of and interest
on any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement).
The Series 2013B-3 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013B3 Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity, and (ii) for a
premium to be payable on the redemption of any Series 2013B-3 Bonds calculated in a manner to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment or calculated as a percentage in
excess of 100% of the principal
amount redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fifth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series
2013B-3 Bonds may be secured by a
Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held
by the Trustee under the Indenture.
The principal amount of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds may include provision
for funding the Debt Service Reserve
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds,
subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013B-3
Bonds. The Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2013B-3 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds (which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1), the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under

The City Record
which any Series 2013B-3 Bonds may
be redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to
cause a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013B-3 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds shall be applied
as follows:
a. to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
b. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013B-3 Bonds as capitalized interest or as accrued interest
from their dated date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;
c. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
d. to the Trustee for deposit in the

1919

55
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapters 177
and 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
any original issue premium received
from the sale of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fifth Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013B-3
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds, defeasance of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds, and
other terms consistent with this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award
and approved by the Director of
Finance as not substantially adverse
to the City. The Fifth Supplement
shall be approved as to form by the
Director of Law. The determination
by the Director of Finance that the
provisions of the Fifth Supplement
are not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the Director’s signing of the Fifth
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Fifth
Supplement as may be necessary or
appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds for the purpose
set forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Four Million
Eight Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars ($4,830,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The Notes, if sold as fixed rate obligations, shall bear interest at such rate,
not exceeding three percent (3.00%)
per year, and shall be payable on the
date or dates, as shall be determined
by the Director of Finance in the Note
Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature on
the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
unless the Director of Finance, based
on the advice of a financial advisor,
determines that it is in the best interest of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, that the
Notes not be redeemable prior to
maturity or that a premium be paid on
their prior redemption; shall be designated “Cemeteries Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which

56
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Note
Certificate of Award, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion of
the Notes to be obligations bearing
interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Note Certificate of Award the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the variable rate Notes shall be
determined; provided that the variable rate Notes shall not bear interest
at a rate in excess of Twenty-Five
percent (25.00%) per year. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
to be executed by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements, and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is

The City Record
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013B-3 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i) the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax- Exempt
Bonds to be and remain excluded
from gross income for federal income

1920

November 27, 2013
tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (B)
restrict the yield on investment property, (C) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(D) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(E) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
and any Notes is hereby authorized
(i) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the Series
2013B-3 Bonds and any Notes as the
City is permitted to or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer, (ii)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds and
any Notes and (iii) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Series 2013B-3
Bonds and any Notes, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013B-3
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2013B-3 Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2013B-3 Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013B-3 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds or Notes from
one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions

November 27, 2013
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013B-3 Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013B-3 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Fiscal Officer of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a

The City Record
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1464-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$3,660,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand
Dollars
($3,660,000)
(the
“Series
2013B-2 Bonds”) to finance the costs
of certain permanent improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made

1921

57
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds is at least five years
and that the maximum maturity of
the Series 2013B-2 Bonds is 25 years,
a copy of which is contained in File
No. 1464-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
hereof that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2013B-2
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Three Million
Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars
($3,660,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal parks
and recreation facilities by constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
installing, renovating, enlarging,
redeveloping and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, tracks, fields and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement, plazas, landscaping and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances
and the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real estate
and the demolition of any existing
buildings, structures, walkways and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013B2 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section  1 hereof. The Series 2013B-2
Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in

58
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be issued
and secured under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
2008, between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on May 30, 2013 (the “Series 2013A
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2013B-2
Bonds and any additional bonds
issued under the Indenture are collectively referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013B2 Bonds. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds may
be issued in one or more series or subseries. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds may
be delivered only in book-entry form,
and if so delivered, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to

The City Record
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Indenture and the Fifth Supplement
identified in Section 7. The Series
2013B-2 Bonds shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement Bonds, Series 2013B-2”
or may contain such other designation as provided in the Certificate of
Award identified below. The Series
2013B-2 Bonds shall be issued in one
lot as fully registered Series 2013B-2
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any whole multiple thereof. The
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall be signed by officials of the City
in the manner set forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013B2 Bonds and the sale of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the yield (determined in accordance with the arbitrage provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended) of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds shall not exceed seven percent
(7.00%) per year; provided, however,
that if the Series 2013B-2 Bonds are
not Tax-Exempt Bonds (as defined
below), the yield shall not exceed
nine percent (9.00%) per year. Interest on the Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall
be payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15, or such other dates
specified in the Certificate of Award
(the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds shall be a date no later than
twenty-five (25) years from a date
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made for the Series 2013B2 Bonds, as set forth in the Certificate
of Award. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2013B-2 Bonds
or as term Series 2013B-2 Bonds
payable prior to stated maturity pursuant to sinking fund redemption
(the “Term Bonds”). The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be issued
as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The

1922

November 27, 2013
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement).
The Series 2013B-2 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013B2 Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity, and (ii) for a
premium to be payable on the redemption of any Series 2013B-2 Bonds calculated in a manner to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment or calculated as a percentage in
excess of 100% of the principal
amount redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fifth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series
2013B-2 Bonds may be secured by a
Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held
by the Trustee under the Indenture.
The principal amount of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds may include provision
for funding the Debt Service Reserve
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds,
subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013B-2
Bonds. The Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2013B-2 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds (which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1), the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2013B-2 Bonds may
be redeemed prior to maturity at the

November 27, 2013
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to
cause a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013B-2 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds shall be applied
as follows:
a. to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
b. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013B-2 Bonds as capitalized interest or as accrued interest
from their dated date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;
c. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
d. to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including, notwithstanding

The City Record
and as an exception to Chapters 177
and 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
any original issue premium received
from the sale of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fifth Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013B-2
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds, defeasance of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds, and
other terms consistent with this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award
and approved by the Director of
Finance as not substantially adverse
to the City. The Fifth Supplement
shall be approved as to form by the
Director of Law. The determination
by the Director of Finance that the
provisions of the Fifth Supplement
are not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the Director’s signing of the Fifth
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Fifth
Supplement as may be necessary or
appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds for the purpose
set forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Six Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($3,660,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The Notes, if sold as fixed rate obligations, shall bear interest at such rate,
not exceeding three percent (3.00%)
per year, and shall be payable on the
date or dates, as shall be determined
by the Director of Finance in the Note
Certificate of Award; shall be dated
their date of issuance; shall mature on
the date set forth in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be subject to
redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
unless the Director of Finance, based
on the advice of a financial advisor,
determines that it is in the best interest of the City in order to enhance the
marketability of the Notes, that the
Notes not be redeemable prior to
maturity or that a premium be paid on
their prior redemption; shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation
Notes” or as otherwise provided in the
Note Certificate of Award; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system). The provisions of Sec-

1923

59
tions 9.98 to 9.983 of the Revised Code
shall apply to the Notes and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Note Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Notes to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Note Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest to
be borne by the variable rate Notes
shall be determined; provided that the
variable rate Notes shall not bear
interest at a rate in excess of TwentyFive percent (25.00%) per year. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into agreements in connection
with the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
to be executed by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements, and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official

60
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013B-2 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i) the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax- Exempt
Bonds to be and remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that

The City Record
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (B)
restrict the yield on investment property, (C) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(D) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(E) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
and any Notes is hereby authorized
(i) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the Series
2013B-2 Bonds and any Notes as the
City is permitted to or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer, (ii)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds and
any Notes and (iii) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Series 2013B-2
Bonds and any Notes, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013B-2
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2013B-2 Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2013B-2 Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013B-2 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds or Notes from
one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings

1924

November 27, 2013
on the Series 2013B-2 Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013B-2 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Fiscal Officer of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it

November 27, 2013
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1465-13.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$27,110,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities
for the discharge of governmental
functions and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed TwentySeven Million One Hundred and Ten
Thousand Dollars ($27,110,000) (the
“Series 2013B-1 Bonds”) to finance
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”);
and
Whereas, the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured
by income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made

The City Record
to the escrow agent for the City’s
general obligation bonds; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds is at least five years
and that the maximum maturity of
the Series 2013B-1 Bonds is 28 years,
a copy of which is contained in File
No. 1465-13-A; and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
is necessary to provide funds to pay
the
costs
of
certain
permanent
improvements described in Section 1
hereof that are urgently needed for
the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Series 2013B-1
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Twenty-Seven
Million One Hundred and Ten Thousand Dollars ($27,110,000) for the purpose of paying, or reimbursing the
City for, the costs of improving facilities for the discharge of governmental functions or facilities for services
otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare, including
acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, installing, renovating, enlarging
and otherwise improving buildings,
structures and other facilities in, of
and for City Hall, police stations,
including the 3rd District police station, fire stations, emergency medical
centers, service stations, waste collection, transfer and disposal facilities,
correctional facilities, health facilities, centers and other facilities
including certain improvements relating to a proposed County-owned convention center hotel, the provision of
necessary
fixtures,
furnishings,
equipment, information technology
hardware and software, utilities, site
improvements and appurtenances,
and to pay any capitalized interest
and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the securities, including all financing costs
within
the
meaning
of
Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2013B1 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to
the provisions of the Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section  1 hereof. The Series 2013B-1
Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June

1925

61
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be issued
and secured under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1,
2008, between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”),
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”), one series of Subordinate
Lien Income Tax Bonds issued on
November 29, 2012 (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) and three series of Subordinate Lien Income Tax Bonds issued
on May 30, 2013 (the “Series 2013A
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Series 2013A Bonds, the Series 2013B-1
Bonds and any additional bonds
issued under the Indenture are collectively referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2013B1 Bonds. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds may
be issued in one or more series or subseries. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds may
be delivered only in book-entry form,
and if so delivered, shall be registered
in the name of the Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobi-

62
lized in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Indenture and the Fifth Supplement
identified in Section 7. The Series
2013B-1 Bonds shall be designated
“Public
Facilities
Improvement
Bonds, Series 2013B-1” or may contain
such other designation as provided in
the Certificate of Award identified
below. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
be issued in one lot as fully registered
Series 2013B-1 Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any whole multiple
thereof. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance. The Series
2013B-1 Bonds shall be signed by officials of the City in the manner set
forth in the Indenture.
The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2013B1 Bonds and the sale of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the yield (determined in accordance with the arbitrage provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended) of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds shall not exceed seven per cent
(7.00%) per year; provided, however,
that if the Series 2013B-1 Bonds are
not Tax-Exempt Bonds (as defined
below), the yield shall not exceed
nine percent (9.00%) per year. Interest on the Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
be payable semi-annually on May 15
and November 15, or such other dates
specified in the Certificate of Award
(the “Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
mature in the years and principal
amounts set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final
maturity date of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds shall be a date no later than
twenty-eight (28) years from a date
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made for the Series 2013B1 Bonds, as set forth in the Certificate
of Award. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds
stated to mature in any year may be
issued as serial Series 2013B-1 Bonds
or as term Series 2013B-1 Bonds
payable prior to stated maturity pursuant to sinking fund redemption
(the “Term Bonds”). The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be issued
as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the
Term Bonds shall be redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements
at
a
redemption price of 100% of the principal amount redeemed, plus interest

The City Record
accrued to the redemption date, on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates. The
aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Trustee for payment of principal of and interest on
any Term Bonds shall include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement).
The Series 2013B-1 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2013B1 Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity, and (ii) for a
premium to be payable on the redemption of any Series 2013B-1 Bonds calculated in a manner to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment or calculated as a percentage in
excess of 100% of the principal
amount redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That
election shall be exercised as provided in the Fifth Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series
2013B-1 Bonds may be secured by a
Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held
by the Trustee under the Indenture.
The principal amount of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds may include provision
for funding the Debt Service Reserve
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds,
subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2013B-1
Bonds. The Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall
first be offered for purchase to the
Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if
not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to the purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written advice of a financial advisor retained under authority
of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Series
2013B-1 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds (which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1), the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under

1926

November 27, 2013
which any Series 2013B-1 Bonds may
be redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds (if different from those
set forth in Section 3) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance to
be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest of
the City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to
cause a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the City
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Series 2013B-1 Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and the
Indenture, that are not substantially
adverse to the City and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. It is determined
that the terms of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant
to the Certificate of Award, the Indenture and the Fifth Supplement, are in
the best interest of the City and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds shall be applied
as follows:
a. to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
b. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2013B-1 Bonds as capitalized interest or as accrued interest
from their dated date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchaser;
c. to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
d. to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the pro-

November 27, 2013
ceeds (including, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Chapters 177
and 179 of the Codified Ordinances,
any original issue premium received
from the sale of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Fifth Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds, redemption of Series 2013B-1
Bonds, payments under any Credit
Support Instrument authorized by
Section 11, application of the proceeds
of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds, defeasance of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds, and
other terms consistent with this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award
and approved by the Director of
Finance as not substantially adverse
to the City. The Fifth Supplement
shall be approved as to form by the
Director of Law. The determination
by the Director of Finance that the
provisions of the Fifth Supplement
are not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the Director’s signing of the Fifth
Supplement. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law, the
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to sign,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments
in addition to the Indenture and Fifth
Supplement as may be necessary or
appropriate to issue and sell the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds for the purpose
set forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed TwentySeven Million One Hundred and Ten
Thousand Dollars ($27,110,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding three percent
(3.00%) per year, and shall be
payable on the date or dates, as shall
be determined by the Director of
Finance in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, unless the Director
of Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability of
the Notes, that the Notes not be
redeemable prior to maturity or that a
premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which

The City Record
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Note
Certificate of Award, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion of
the Notes to be obligations bearing
interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Note Certificate of Award the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the variable rate Notes shall be
determined; provided that the variable rate Notes shall not bear interest
at a rate in excess of Twenty-Five
percent (25.00%) per year. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the variable rate
Notes, and from time to time thereafter so long as the variable rate
Notes are outstanding, with providers
of Credit Support Instruments (as
defined in Section 11) and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
to be executed by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund or
funds set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements, and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is

1927

63
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds. The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2013B-1 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i) the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax- Exempt
Bonds to be and remain excluded
from gross income for federal income

64
tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (iii) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (A) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (B)
restrict the yield on investment property, (C) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(D) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(E) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of
that interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
and any Notes is hereby authorized
(i) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of
the City with respect to the Series
2013B-1 Bonds and any Notes as the
City is permitted to or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or tax status of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds and any Notes or
interest thereon, or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing rebate
amounts or payments or penalties or
making payments of special amounts
in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings
as rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer, (ii)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds and
any Notes and (iii) to give one or
more appropriate certificates of the
City, for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Series 2013B-1
Bonds and any Notes, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2013B-1
Bonds and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on the Series
2013B-1 Bonds and any Notes and the
tax status of the Series 2013B-1 Bonds
and any Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2013B-1 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds or Notes from
one or more nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions

The City Record
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2013B-1 Bonds or Notes.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2013B-1 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Fiscal Officer of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any

1928

November 27, 2013
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1496-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. MA 1505-RC 2010-139 with
Ohio Garment Rental, dba Coyne
Textile Services, Inc. to provide the
rental and laundry of work clothing
for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 666-10, passed May 24,
2010, the Director of Finance entered
into Contract No. MA 1505-RC 2010139 with Ohio Garment Rental, dba
Coyne Textile Services, Inc. to provide the rental and laundry of work
clothing for the various divisions of
City government; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 666-10
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

November 27, 2013
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No. MA
1505-RC 2010-139 for an additional
year, in the approximate amount of
$199,999.50,
with
Ohio
Garment
Rental, dba Coyne Textile Services,
Inc. for the requirements to provide
the rental and laundry of work clothing for the various divisions of City
government. This ordinance constitutes
the
additional
legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
666-10 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1497-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to enter into one or more
contracts in order to provide professional services necessary to provide
group medical, dental, prescription,
vision, and life insurance coverage,
the
medical
reimbursement
accounts, dependent care accounts,
and premium pass-through benefits
and stop-loss coverage under Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for
City of Cleveland employees, for a
period up to one year, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Human
Resources.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts in
order to provide professional services
necessary to provide group medical,
dental, prescription, vision, and life
insurance coverage, the medical reimbursement accounts, dependent care
accounts, and premium pass-through
benefits and stop-loss coverage under
Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for
City of Cleveland employees, for a
period up to one year, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Human Resources.
The selection of the carriers shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Human Resources from a list of qualified carriers as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Human Resources for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
cost to be paid for the contracts shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the contracts shall
be prepared by the Director of Law .

The City Record
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from funds appropriated in budget year 2014 for this purpose.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1500-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of medical
supplies and equipment, for the various divisions of City government,
for a period of one year, with one
option to renew for an additional
one year period, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
one year, with one option to renew for
an additional one year period, exercisable by the Director of Finance, of
the necessary items of medical supplies and equipment, in the approximate amount as purchased during the
preceding term, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 1505, RL 2013-45)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the mem-

1929

65
bers elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

Ord. No. 1501-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of miscellaneous-sized steel plates, for the various divisions of City government,
for a period of one year, with one
option to renew for an additional
one year period, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the term of
one year, with one option to renew for
an additional one year period, exercisable by the Director of Finance, for
the necessary items of miscellaneoussized steel plates in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 1505, RL 2013-44)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013

The City Record

66

November 27, 2013

Ord. No. 1523-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the
names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the names of
the following claimants and charged against the fund:
Claimant:

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
Harris, Barbara

12472

$

189.69

Clerks Office

01-011601-672000

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY:
Benitez, Jose
Gaston, Joseph
Lange, Nicholas
Hill, Ayana
Williams, Walter
Jones, Timothy P.

12485
12507
12473
12492
12488
12510

$ 479.00
$ 581.00
$ 906.11
$ 235.00
$ 500.00
$1,023.00

Corrections
Corrections
Corrections
Police
Police
Police

01-600700-672000
01-600700-672000
01-600700-672000
01-600200-672000
01-600200-672000
01-600200-672000

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Correno, Claudio
Foster, Errol
DeJernette, Ricky
Shepherd, Teresa

12493
12500
12502
12495

$
$
$

500.00
$50.00
311.29
250.00

Streets
Waste
Vacant Lots
Vacant Lots

01-701601-672000
01-701301-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Katherine M. Kirtley
Sanford C. Pierce Jr.
Will Hamlet Jr.

5931
5971
6116

$
$
$

755.00
755.00
285.00

Water Pollution Control 54 SF 001
Water Pollution Control 54 SF 001
Water Pollution Control 54 SF 001

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts in this ordinance is conditioned
on a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim within six months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 18, 2013.
Effective November 20, 2013.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE MEETINGS

Thursday, November 21, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins, J. Johnson, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone. Unauthorized Absence: Miller.
Monday, November 25, 2013
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Accept gift of the 2013 National Senior Games cauldron which is currently on Mall
B — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — Works Department (O 1596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Bldg. — TIF Agreement — Victory Midtown, LLC — CMSD
(Ward 05) (O 1548-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

1930

November 27, 2013

The City Record

67

Harvard Rd. and Mill Pond Dr. — Sell City-owned property — PROPSTONE, LLC — behavioral
hospital (O 1470-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland — grant Greater Cleveland Partnership — Office of Equal Opportunity (O 1469-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Optima 777, LLC — St. Clair Ave., 777 (former Crowne Plaza Hotel) — Tax Increment Financing
Agreement — Amend Sect(s) 1,4 and 5 of Ord. 1219-11 (Ward 03) (O 1550-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patriots Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — Pierre Nappier Jr. Foundation —
Works Department (Ward 07 NEF) (O 1617-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sickle Cell Awareness Education Program — Kincaid’s Kindred Spirits, Inc.,- Health
Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 1616-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant Abandoned Property Action Council — Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute — amend Agreement No. CT 0101-PS2013 -191 (O 1615-13) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1895

AIDS
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2014 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1582-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

Appropriations
Appropriations — additional — Six Hundred Fifty Thousand $650,000 — Enterprise Funds Finance Department (O 1599-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2014 — Finance Department (O 1600-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1886

Banks
Opposing the impending bank branch closing of the PNC Bank — East 185th St., 609 (Ward
11) (R 1621-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Broadway Avenue, 5437, (Ward 5) – Dennis Althar c/o Leonard Remmer, owner/tenant —
appeal resolved on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-233-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 4323, (Ward 14) – Kinds of the Future, owner — appeal withdrawn on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-232-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 5709, (Ward 15) – Jesus Laboy, owner — appeal postponed to 12/18/13
on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-239-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colgate Avenue, 7012, (Rear), a.k.a. 7014 Colgate Avenue, (Ward 15) – Neil T.
Clough, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-224-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colgate Avenue, 7014, (Front), (Ward 15) – Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal resolved
on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-210-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, 1960, (Ward 3) – Kamis Properties LLC, owner — appeal amended and
adopted on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-263-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 115th Street, 1442, (Ward 9) – George Redcross, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-220-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 3579, (Ward 6) – Catherine Carter & Quentin Carter, owners — appeal
resolved on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-218-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 127th Street, 2791, (Ward 6) – Robert C. Johnson, owner — appeal adopted on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-180-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 275, (Ward 10) – 275 East 131st Street Group LLC, owner — appeal
resolved on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-225-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3676, (Ward 2) – Eleanor E. Taylor, owner — appeal adopted on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-215-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 393, (Ward 10) – Karen O’Toole, owner — appeal adopted on
11/20/13 (Doc. A-209-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 16917, (Ward 10) – John Lewis, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-235-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hathaway Avenue, 10714, (Ward 8) – K and W c/o Littie Vanessa Crumb, owner — appeal
resolved on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-231-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marvin Avenue, 4053, (Ward 14) – Francita Salem, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-230-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neville Avenue, 7901, (Ward 16) – Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal adopted on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-172-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Place Street, 3719, (Ward 3) – Fred Dawson, owner — appeal postponed to 12/04/13 on
11/20/13 (Doc. A-226-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Avenue, 3138, (Ward 8) – B & B Wrecking & Excavating, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-193-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Schaefer Avenue, 6707, (Ward 7) – Shana McDade, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-228-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stevenson Road, 952, (Ward 11) – Antoinette Dixon, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-234-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thorn Avenue, 9629, (Ward 8) – HSBC Bank USA National Association, owner — appeal
adopted on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-214-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 110th Street, 3218, (Ward 17) – Charles P. Woller, owner — appeal postponed to
12/18/13 on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 110th Street, 3218, (Ward 17) – Judith L. Scott, owner — appeal postponed to
12/18/13 on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-238-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1931

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912

The City Record

68

West 117th Street, 33809, (Ward 17) – Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-222-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 11th Street, 3012, a.k.a. 3023 West 11th Street (Front), (Ward 3) – Neil T. Clough,
owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-211-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 17th Street, 2306, (Ward 3) – Don Dickson, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-279-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street, 3178, (Ward 14) – Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal adopted on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-174-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 51st Street, 3044, (Rear), (Ward 15) – Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal adopted
on 11/20/13 (Doc. A-173-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3564, (Ward 15) – JBL Funding, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-236-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 2070, (Ward 15) – Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal resolved on 11/20/13
(Doc. A-223-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

November 27, 2013
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1912
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1911

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Roadway replace and repair — approve subcontractors — Contract #PI2013*017 — amend
BOC Res. 101-13, 371-13, 617-13 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
Security bollards and roadway improvements at Main Terminal — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2013*054 per BOC Res. 239-13 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 123rd Street (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-024 — easement for gas pipeline to Dominion East
Ohio Gas per Ord. 1103-13 (BOC Res. 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) — easements on various parcels for
Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project per Ord. 1112-13 (BOC Res. 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Easements
East 123rd Street (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-024 — easement for gas pipeline to Dominion East
Ohio Gas per Ord. 1103-13 (BOC Res. 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) — easements on various parcels for
Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project per Ord. 1112-13 (BOC Res. 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Finance Department
East 123rd Street (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-024 — easement for gas pipeline to Dominion East
Ohio Gas per Ord. 1103-13 (BOC Res. 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) — easements on various parcels for
Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project per Ord. 1112-13 (BOC Res. 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 123rd Street (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-024 — easement for gas pipeline to Dominion East
Ohio Gas per Ord. 1103-13 (BOC Res. 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) — easements on various parcels for
Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project per Ord. 1112-13 (BOC Res. 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — North Coast Harbor
Transient Marina design/build services — amend Contract #PS2013*036 per BOC
Res. 547-12, 281-13 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Board of Control — Police Division
Aviation maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Helicopter Minit-Men, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Roadway replace and repair — approve subcontractors — Contract #PI2013*017 — amend
BOC Res. 101-13, 371-13, 617-13 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
Security bollards and roadway improvements at Main Terminal — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2013*054 per BOC Res. 239-13 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (BOC Res. 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
Transient Marina design/build services at North Coast Harbor — amend Contract
#PS2013*036 per BOC Res. 547-12, 281-13 (BOC Res. 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Transient Marina design/build services at North Coast Harbor — amend Contract
#PS2013*036 per BOC Res. 547-12, 281-13 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 662-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

1932

November 27, 2013

The City Record

69

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Roadway replace and repair — approve subcontractors — Contract #PI2013*017 — amend
BOC Res. 101-13, 371-13, 617-13 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 663-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
Security bollards and roadway improvements at Main Terminal — approve subcontractors Contract #PI2013*054 per BOC Res. 239-13 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 664-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Aviation maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Helicopter Minit-Men, Inc. — Division of
Police (BOC Res. 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
HVAC system maintenance, repair/replacement — approve subcontractor — Contract
RC2012*49 per BOC Res. 209-12 (BOC Res. 661-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
East 123rd Street (Ward 9) — PPN 110-24-024 — easement for gas pipeline to Dominion East
Ohio Gas per Ord. 1103-13 (BOC Res. 667-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) — easements on various parcels for
Dugway West Interceptor Relief Sewer Project per Ord. 1112-13 (BOC Res. 666-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Aviation maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Helicopter Minit-Men, Inc. — Division of
Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 665-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1904
HVAC system maintenance, repair/replacement — approve subcontractor — Contract
RC2012*49 per BOC Res. 209-12 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 661-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-1, (Ward 3) – Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/24/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-206). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-2, (Ward 3) – Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/24/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-207). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-3, (Ward 3) – Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/24/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-208). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-4, (Ward 3) – Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/24/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-209). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-5, (Ward 3) – Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/24/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-210). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Abbey Avenue, 1819, Parcel A-6, (Ward 3) – Forsgren Properties, Incorporated, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/24/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-211). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Road, 4770, (Ward 13) – Julie Adams House, Incorporated, owner, and Traci
Barnes — appeal postponed to 12/30/13 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookpark Road, 1400, (Ward 13) – Udelson Brookpark Ltd., LLC, owner, and LaPine Truck
Sales, prospective tenant — appeal postponed to 12/30/13 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-242) . . . . . .
East 185th Street, 777, (Ward 11) – John Fuduric, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
11/25/13 (Cal. 13-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 2843, (Ward 3) – Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, owner, and
Welcome House, Incorporated, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on
11/25/13 (Cal. 13-139) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 1843, (Ward 3) – Alex Preedy, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 11/25/13
(Cal. 13-222) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John Avenue, 4305, (Ward 3) – Michael Flickinger, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
11/25/13 (Cal. 13-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niessen Court, 4571, (Ward 14) – Wilfredo Serrano, owner — appeal rescheduled to 12/09/13
on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niessen Court, 4575, (Ward 14) – Wilfredo Serrano, owner — appeal rescheduled to 12/09/13
on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1616, (Ward 3) – Ojala Properties, LLC and Maria Keckan — appeal
dismissed on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-160) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 31st Street, 2169, (Ward 3) – Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization, owner, and John
Brooks, prospective purchaser — appeal postponed to 1/21/14 on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-244). . .
West 44th Street, 1881, (Ward 3) – Michael Flickinger, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-240) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 44th Street, 1887, (Ward 3) – Debbie Kraus, prospective purchaser — appeal granted
and adopted on 11/25/13 (Cal. 13-241). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1933

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910

The City Record

70

November 27, 2013

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Buckeye Road, 12716, (Ward 4) – Laniece Davis, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/9/13
(Cal. 13-252) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hulda Avenue, 10914, (Ward 6) – Clarence Terrell, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/9/13
(Cal. 13-246) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4414-20, (Ward 13) – Brian Bodach, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/9/13
(Cal. 13-247) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road, 4345, (Ward 13) – St. Mary of Egypt Orthodox Monastery, owner — appeal to be
heard on 12/9/13 (Cal. 13-251) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 160th Street, 4600, (Ward 18) – MWTP LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/9/13
(Cal. 13-253) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1910

Bonds
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $4,830,000 — Finance Department (O 1463-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1917
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $3,660,000 — Finance Department
(O 1464-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $27,110,000 — Finance Department (O 1465-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1925

Camp George L. Forbes
Summer Food Service Program, 2014 — Contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Grants — Recreation Division — Works Department (O 1232-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916

Capital Projects
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aust Ave. — encroach into right -of- way — bollards, backup generator, an electric
transformer, gas meter and utility ductbank — West 25th Street Lofts LLC (Ward 03)
(O 1410-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development and Capital Projects — amend Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 UCAA LIMITED — Upper Chester Target Area (O 1466-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue underground ductbank and resurfacing project — public improvement
contract — Amend Sect. 17 of Ord. 908-12 (O 1549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 06) (R 1414-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. and East 22nd St. — encroach into right-of-way — utility duct bank — Cleveland
State University (Ward 08) (O 1493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., Huron Rd., and East 14th St. — encroach into right-of-way — four gateways
and a chandelier — Playhouse Square Foundation (Ward 03) (O 1495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Ct., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07)
(R 1502-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Luke Road S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 04)
(R 1598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St. — encroach into right-of-way — surface parking area — K&D Enterprises, Inc.
(Ward 08) (O 1494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 1503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property on Grand Ave., PPN 126-27-132 — C.A.J. PROPERTIES, LLC (O 1231-13) . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. and East 89th St. — encroach into right -of- way — 5-foot wide landscape
buffer strip — PATDAN VA LLC (Ward(s) 06, 07) (O 1409-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 14)
(R 1471-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

Case Western Reserve University
Lease Agreement with CWRU for Kirtland Intake Crib — Wind Turbine — Utilities Department
(O 1302-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

City of Cleveland Bids
Art Gallery Dedication Project — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 359-05 — bid due January 22, 2014
(advertised 11/27/2013 and 12/4/2013 and 12/11/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Large valve renewal, Phase I — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per Ord. 444-10 — bid due December 20, 2013 (advertised 11/27/2013 and 12/4/2013) . . . . . .
Mail extraction machines (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due December 20, 2013 (advertised 11/20/2013 and 11/27/2013) .
Peterbilt McNielus parts and labor — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due December 13, 2013 (advertised
11/20/2013 and 11/27/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1934

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913

November 27, 2013

The City Record

Roof replacement at Nottingham Water Works Plant Filter Building (Project No. 659) —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 262-12 — bid
due December 20, 2013 (advertised 11/27/2013 and 12/4/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Skylight restoration and partial roof replacement at 1201 Lakeside Avenue — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 262-12 — bid due January 24, 2014
(advertised 11/20/2013 and 11/27/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water main renewal, transmission , Phase I — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 444-10 — bid due December 13, 2013 (advertised 11/20/2013 and
11/27/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Side Market cleaning (Re-bid) — Department of Public Works — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due December 18, 2013 (advertised 11/27/2013 and 12/4/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

71

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1913
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

City Planning Commission
Ablewhite Ave. off of Eddy Rd. — secondary and honorary designation of “Samuel A. McNeal
Way” — Works Department (Ward 09) (O 1618-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bethany Baptist Church (Aka Zion Evangelical Church) — PPN 109-18-001/ 002/ 003/ 004/ 005 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1077-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Christian Church (Aka Glenville Church Of Christ) — East 105th St., 697; Helena
Ave., 10501-15 — Ppn 108-25-058 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1078-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Ave. (between East 97th St. and East 101st St.) — change Use, Area and
Height Districts (Ward 07) (O 1461-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 41 St. (southwest side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 08) (O 1436-13) . . . . . .
E. 62nd St. south of Grdina Dr. — change Use and Area Districts (Ward 07) (O 1379-13) . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St. (north of Benham Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 06)
(O 1602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st St. and Beachwood Ave. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts (Ward 02) (O 1603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06) (R 1414-13) . . .
Establishing Grantwood Allotments Historic District (O 1606-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jacob Vidmar Bldg. — St. Clair Ave., 3830 — PPN 102-20-006 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1225-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Ct., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 07)
(R 1502-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (between Columbus Rd. and West 17th St.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts (Ward 03) (O 1604-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Luke Road S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04)
(R 1598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 85th St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — (Ward(s) 17, 16) (O 1332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May Company Warehouse — Payne Ave., 4100-40 — PPN 104-32-015 — designate as landmark
(Ward 08) (O 1214-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(R 1503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Otto Narveleit Building — PPN 108-09-036 — designate as landmark (Ward 08) (O 1079-13). . . . . .
Triskett Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 19)
(R 1343-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
True Holiness Temple (formerly Second Church of Christ, Scientist) — Euclid Ave., 7706-14 —
PPN 118-16-004 / 005 / 038 / 039 / 040 — designate as landmark — Landmarks
Commission (Ward 06) (O 1607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vogt Bldg. — Superior Ave., 3303-07 — PPN 102-19-053 — designate as landmark (Ward 08)
(O 1226-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., (north side of) Madison Ave. (between West 116th St. and West 115th St.) —
change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 16) (O 1605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 14) (R 1471-13). .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1592-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

Clerk of Council
Communication and public relations consulting services — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1611-13) . . . . .
Computer technology projects — amend Contract # PS 2010*83 — Solar Systems Networking Inc.
(O 1613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial consulting and auditing services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intranet and internet sites — Thunder Tech (O 1614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal issues, Advising on the Charter and Codified Ordinances related to campaign finance
issues — Don McTigue (O 1610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant Abandoned Property Action Council — Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute — amend Agreement No. CT 0101-PS2013 -191 (O 1615-13) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1895
1895
1894
1895

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1895

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Space at North Cargo Facility Building — lease for air cargo facility — Servisair USA,
Inc. (O 1513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Space at South Cargo Facility Building — lease for air cargo facility — United Airlines
(O 1515-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

1935

The City Record

72

November 27, 2013

Terminal Building space (Concourse “A”) — lease agreement — Frontier Airlines (O 1512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Valet parking services — lease agreement — Standard Parking (O 1514-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

Cleveland Metropolitan School District (CMSD)
Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Bldg. — TIF Agreement — Victory Midtown, LLC — CMSD
(Ward 05) (O 1548-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors — clean and maintain — Utilities Department
(O 1595-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Cleveland State University
Euclid Ave. and East 22nd St. — encroach into right-of-way — utility duct bank — Capital
Projects (Ward 08) (O 1493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

Codified Ordinances
Exempting special event carriage businesses from license requirement — amend
Sections 447.02 and 447.08 (O 1474-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
Land Bank Reutilization Programs — amend Section 183.021 (O 1408-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
Police Enforcement Duty — amend Section 403.01 — Safety Department (O 1635-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — approve collective bargaining
agreement — Finance Department — Human Resource Department (O 1579-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO (SEIU) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Ord. 1689-11 — Finance Department — Human Resource
Department (O 1588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

Community Development
Arbor Park Phase II Refinancing — amend contract # 57340 (Ward 05) (O 1430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — amend Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 — UCAA LIMITED — Upper
Chester Target Area (O 1466-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Homes Grant — Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant or Lead Hazard Control
Grant — HUD (O 1522-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Bank Reutilization Programs — amend Section 183.021 (O 1408-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland, Inc. — amend contracts — West 45th
Street Apartments (Ward 15) (O 1597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG)
Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — Grants — Ohio Department of Public Health
(O 1587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

Condolences
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867

Hodo, Pernorse — 100th Birthday (R 1627-13) .
Morrow, Irene M. (R 1628-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stickan, Lucy M. Selvaggio (R 1630-13) . . . . . .
Terbrack, George R. (R 1629-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1867
1867
1867
1867

Epstein, Mort (R 1625-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hansen, Loretta Jean (R 1639-13) . . . . .
Koehl, Albert J. (R 1638-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Peter (R 1637-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lucarelli, Sam (R 1636-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
McLemore, Eugene “Baldy” (R 1626-13)

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations

Contracts
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot Gates and Replacing Signage — Public Improvement —
Works Department (O 1229-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clothing, work ; rental and laundry — Ohio Garment Rental, dba Coyne Textile Services,
Inc. — Contract No. MA 1505-RC 2010-139 (O 1496-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Communication and public relations consulting services — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1611-13) .

1936

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894

November 27, 2013

The City Record

73

Community Development and Capital Projects — amend Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 UCAA LIMITED — Upper Chester Target Area (O 1466-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer technology projects — amend Contract # PS 2010*83 — Solar Systems Networking Inc.
(O 1613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debt Next, LLC — debt collection services (O 1593-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue underground ductbank and resurfacing project — public improvement —
Amend Sect. 17 of Ord. 908-12 (O 1549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial consulting and auditing services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors — clean and maintain — Utilities Department
(O 1595-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intranet and internet sites — Thunder Tech (O 1614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal issues, Advising on the Charter and Codified Ordinances related to campaign finance
issues — Don McTigue (O 1610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long-term Waste Recycling and Disposal System — professional services — Gershman,
Brickner & Bratton, Inc. (O 1521-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Medical Supplies and Equipment — various divisions — Finance Department (O 1500-13). . . . . . . .
Municipal Solid Waste, transfer and disposal of — Waste Collection and Disposal Division —
Public Works Department (O 1499-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland, Inc. — West 45th Street Apartments
(Ward 15) (O 1597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1608-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Public Works (O 1498-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Art Projects at the Baldwin and Nottingham Water Treatment Plants — Utilities
Department (O 1594-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Steel plates (miscellaneous-sized) — various divisions — Finance Department (O 1501-13) . . . . . .
Vacant Abandoned Property Action Council — Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute — amend Agreement No. CT 0101-PS2013 -191 (O 1615-13) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1895

Cuyahoga County
Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation Program Grant — Towpath Trail Project,
Stage 3 — Public Works (O 1591-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District
(O 1585-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

Economic Development Department
Brownfield Revolving Loan Program — assist with environmental remediation — US EPA —
Grants (O 1545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Bldg. — TIF Agreement — Victory Midtown, LLC — CMSD
(Ward 05) (O 1548-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extend membership in Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — Grant — US EPA (O 1546-13). . . . . . .
Harvard Rd. and Mill Pond Dr. — Sell City-owned property — PROPSTONE, LLC — behavioral
hospital (O 1470-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Bank Reutilization Programs — amend Section 183.021 (O 1408-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland, Inc. — amend contracts — West 45th
Street Apartments (Ward 15) (O 1597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Optima 777, LLC — St. Clair Ave., 777 (former Crowne Plaza Hotel) — Tax Increment
Financing Agreement — Amend Sect(s) 1,4 and 5 of Ord. 1219-11 (Ward 03) (O 1550-13). . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902

Encroachments
Aust Ave. — right -of- way — bollards, backup generator, an electric transformer, gas meter
and utility ductbank — West 25th Street Lofts LLC — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 03) (O 1410-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. and East 22nd St. — right-of-way — utility duct bank — Cleveland State
University — Capital Projects (Ward 08) (O 1493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., Huron Rd., and East 14th St. — right-of-way — four gateways and a chandelier —
Playhouse Square Foundation (Ward 03) (O 1495-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St. — right-of-way — surface parking area — K&D Enterprises, Inc. (Ward 08)
(O 1494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. and East 89th St. — right -of- way — 5-foot wide landscape buffer strip PATDAN VA LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 06, 07) (O 1409-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. right-of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue LLC — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

Enterprise Funds
Appropriations — additional — Six Hundred Fifty Thousand $650,000 — Enterprise Funds Finance Department (O 1599-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
Fund transfers — $2,009,000 Million — General Fund — $1,150,000 Million — Special Revenue
Fund — $ 5,605,576 Million — Enterprise Fund — Finance Department (O 1601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1892

1937

The City Record

74

November 27, 2013

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Brownfield Revolving Loan Program — assist with environmental remediation — Grants
(O 1545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Extend membership in Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — Grant (O 1546-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Oppose license application for Bradley Rd. landfill (Ward 13) (R 1620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897

Finance Department
Appropriations — additional — Six Hundred Fifty Thousand $650,000 — Enterprise Funds Finance Department (O 1599-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2014 — Finance Department (O 1600-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — $4,830,000 — Finance Department (O 1463-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC — agreement — capital repairs and improvements —
First Energy Stadium (O 1578-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — approve collective bargaining
agreement — Finance Department — Human Resource Department (O 1579-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Clothing, work ; rental and laundry — Ohio Garment Rental, dba Coyne Textile Services,
Inc. — Contract No. MA 1505-RC 2010-139 (O 1496-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debt Next, LLC — contracts — debt collection services (O 1593-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fund transfers — $2,009,000 Million — General Fund — $1,150,000 Million — Special Revenue
Fund — $ 5,605,576 Million — Enterprise Fund — Finance Department (O 1601-13) . . . . . . . . .
Medical Supplies and Equipment — contracts — various divisions (O 1500-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moral Claims — Authorize Payment (O 1523-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $3,660,000 — Finance Department
(O 1464-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $27,110,000 — Finance Department (O 1465-13) . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 40 and 58 — amend Ord. 1689-11 and Ord. 121-13 —
Human Resources Department (O 1590-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO (SEIU) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Ord. 1689-11 — Human Resource Department (O 1588-13) . .
Steel plates (miscellaneous — sized) — contracts — various divisions (O 1501-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temporary and seasonal personnel — employ temporary employment agencies — Projects
Clean Program — Human Resources Department (O 1491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1886
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1917
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1928
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1930
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1921
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1925
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

General Fund
Fund transfers — $2,009,000 Million — General Fund — $1,150,000 Million — Special Revenue
Fund — $ 5,605,576 Million — Enterprise Fund — Finance Department (O 1601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1892

Gifts
Accept gift of the 2013 National Senior Games cauldron which is currently on Mall
B — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Works Department (O 1596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Grants
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation Program Grant — Towpath Trail
Project, Stage 3 — Public Works (O 1591-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arbor Park Phase II Refinancing — amend contract # 57340 (Ward 05) (O 1430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Breast and Cervical Cancer Prevention Program — provide clinical services — Cuyahoga
County Board of Health (O 1581-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brownfield Revolving Loan Program — assist with environmental remediation — US EPA
(O 1545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — Ohio Department of Public Health —
CDBG (O 1587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Children’s Lead Poisoning Prevention Program’s — Ohio Department of Health (O 1589-13) . . . .
Extend membership in Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — US EPA (O 1546-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2014 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1582-13). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Homes Grant — Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant or Lead Hazard Control
Grant — HUD — Community Development Department (O 1522-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2014 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County Board
of Health — Grants (O 1584-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland — agreement — Greater Cleveland
Partnership — Office of Equal Opportunity (O 1469-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol,
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board (O 1583-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mom First Program — Rental of the Healthmobile — U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (O 1580-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District
(O 1585-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2014 — Ohio Department of Health (O 1586-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Service Program, 2014 — Contracts For Food, Food Products, Beverages,
Condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Recreation Division — Works
Department (O 1232-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1938

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1882
1883
1901
1880

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916

November 27, 2013

The City Record

75

Health Department
Breast and Cervical Cancer Prevention Program — provide clinical services — Cuyahoga
County Board of Health — Grants (O 1581-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — Grants — Ohio Department of Public
Health — CDBG (O 1587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Children’s Lead Poisoning Prevention Program’s — Ohio Department of Health — Grants
(O 1589-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2014 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1582-13). . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2014 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County Board
of Health — Grants (O 1584-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Prevention Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga County Alcohol,
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board — Grants (O 1583-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mom First Program — Rental of the Healthmobile — Grant — U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services (O 1580-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sickle Cell Awareness Education Program — agreement — Kincaid’s Kindred Spirits, Inc.
(Ward 10 NEF) (O 1616-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid Waste Disposal Program, 2014 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District
(O 1585-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STD Control Prevention Program, 2014 — Grants — Ohio Department of Health (O 1586-13) . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Healthy Homes Grant — Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant or Lead Hazard Control
Grant — Community Development Department (O 1522-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

Human Resources Department
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — approve collective bargaining
agreement — Finance Department (O 1579-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance — group medical, prescription, dental, vision, life — medical reimbursement and
dependent care accounts — premium pass- through benefits (O 1497-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 40 and 58 — amend Ord. 1689-11 and Ord. 121-13 —
Finance Department (O 1590-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO (SEIU) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Ord. 1689-11 — Finance Department (O 1588-13) . . . . . . .
Temporary and seasonal personnel — employ temporary employment agencies — Projects
Clean Program — Finance Department (O 1491-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

Insurance
Insurance — group medical, prescription, dental, vision, life — medical reimbursement and
dependent care accounts — premium pass- through benefits — Human Resources
Department (O 1497-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1929

Land Reutilization Program
Land Bank Reutilization Programs — amend Section 183.021 (O 1408-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916

Landmark Commission
Bethany Baptist Church (Aka Zion Evangelical Church) — PPN 109-18-001/ 002/ 003/ 004/ 005 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1077-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Christian Church (Aka Glenville Church Of Christ) — East 105th St., 697; Helena
Ave., 10501-15 — PPN 108-25-058 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 08) (O 1078-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jacob Vidmar Bldg. — St. Clair Ave., 3830 — PPN 102-20-006 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1225-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May Company Warehouse — Payne Ave., 4100-40 — PPN 104-32-015 — designate as landmark City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1214-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Otto Narveleit Building — PPN 108-09-036 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1079-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
True Holiness Temple (formerly Second Church of Christ, Scientist) — Euclid Ave., 7706-14 —
PPN 118-16-004 / 005 / 038 / 039 / 040 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission — Landmarks Commission (Ward 06) (O 1607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vogt Bldg. — Superior Ave., 3303-07 — PPN 102-19-053 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1226-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

Lease Agreement
CWRU for Kirtland Intake Crib — Wind Turbine — Utilities Department (O 1302-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
Space at North Cargo Facility Building — lease for air cargo facility — Servisair USA,
Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division (O 1513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

1939

The City Record

76

November 27, 2013

Space at South Cargo Facility Building — lease for air cargo facility — United Airlines —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division (O 1515-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Terminal Building space (Concourse “A”) — Frontier Airlines — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 1512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Valet parking services — Standard Parking — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Division (O 1514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

Lease By Way Of Concession
Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC — agreement — capital repairs and improvements —
First Energy Stadium (O 1578-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

Leases
Day Care Facility — property at Earle B. Turner Recreation Center — Council for Economic
Opportunities in Greater Cleveland (CEOGC) — Works Department (O 1412-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

Liquor Permits
Denison Ave., 2317 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1062-13
(Ward 03) (R 1561-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 770 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 1624-13) . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 770 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 1574-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 17801 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 10) (F 1577-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 17801 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 10) (R 1622-13) . .
Franklin Blvd., 2831 — new application (Ward 03) (F 1573-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 17109 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 19) (R 1559-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1295 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 915-13 (Ward 03)
(R 1560-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spafford Rd., 7702 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 12) (R 1623-13) . . . . . . . . .
Spafford Rd., 7702 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 12) (F 1575-13) . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10929 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 09) (F 1576-13) . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1915
1898
1867
1867
1897
1867
1915

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1915
1898
1867
1867

Loans
Brownfield Revolving Loan Program — assist with environmental remediation — US EPA —
Grants (O 1545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland, Inc. — amend contracts — West 45th
Street Apartments (Ward 15) (O 1597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Moral Claims
Authorize Payment — Finance Department (O 1523-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1930

Neighborhood Equity Funds (NEF)
Patriots Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — agreement — Pierre Nappier Jr.
Foundation — Works Department (Ward 07 NEF) (O 1617-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
Sickle Cell Awareness Education Program — agreement — Kincaid’s Kindred Spirits, Inc.,Health Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 1616-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Office Of Equal Opportunity (O.E.O)
Labor demand study for residents of the City of Cleveland — grant agreement Greater Cleveland Partnership (O 1469-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

Ohio Department of Education
Summer Food Service Program, 2014 — Contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Grants — Recreation Division — Works
Department (O 1232-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916

Ohio Department of Public Health
Children’s Lead Poisoning Prevention Program’s — Grants (O 1589-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883
Federal AIDS Prevention Program, 2014 — Grants (O 1582-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
Denison Avenue underground ductbank and resurfacing project — public improvement
contract — Amend Sect. 17 of Ord. 908-12 (O 1549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

1940

November 27, 2013

The City Record

77

Permits
Aust Ave. — encroach into right -of- way — bollards, backup generator, an electric
transformer, gas meter and utility ductbank — West 25th Street Lofts LLC — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1410-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. and East 22nd St. — encroach into right-of-way — utility duct bank — Cleveland
State University — Capital Projects (Ward 08) (O 1493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., Huron Rd., and East 14th St. — encroach into right-of-way — four gateways
and a chandelier — Playhouse Square Foundation (Ward 03) (O 1495-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St. — encroach into right-of-way — surface parking area — K&D Enterprises, Inc.
(Ward 08) (O 1494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. and East 89th St. — encroach into right -of- way — 5-foot wide landscape
buffer strip — PATDAN VA LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 06, 07)
(O 1409-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1592-13). . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

Police Division
Police Enforcement Duty — amend Section 403.01 — Safety Department (O 1635-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Port Control Department
Space at North Cargo Facility Building — lease for air cargo facility — Servisair USA,
Inc. — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division (O 1513-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Space at South Cargo Facility Building — lease for air cargo facility — United Airlines —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division (O 1515-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Building space (Concourse “A”) — lease agreement — Frontier Airlines — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport Division (O 1512-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valet parking services — lease agreement — Standard Parking — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 1514-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

Professional Services
Communication and public relations consulting services — Mita Marketing LLC (O 1611-13) . .
Computer technology projects — amend Contract # PS 2010*83 — Solar Systems
Networking Inc. (O 1613-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1612-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debt Next, LLC — contracts — debt collection services (O 1593-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial consulting and auditing services — Guy Gadomski, CPA (O 1609-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance — group medical, prescription, dental, vision, life — medical reimbursement and
dependent care accounts — premium pass- through benefits — Human Resources
Department (O 1497-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intranet and internet sites — Thunder Tech (O 1614-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal issues, Advising on the Charter and Codified Ordinances related to campaign finance
issues — Don McTigue (O 1610-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long-term Waste Recycling and Disposal System — contracts — Gershman, Brickner &
Bratton, Inc. (O 1521-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operation and Sustainability plan implementation — Cobalt Group, Inc. (O 1608-13) . . . . . . . . .
Public Art Projects at the Baldwin and Nottingham Water Treatment Plants — Utilities
Department (O 1594-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temporary and seasonal personnel — employ temporary employment agencies — Projects
Clean Program — Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1491-13) . . . .
Vacant Abandoned Property Action Council — Western Reserve Land Conservancy d/b/a
Thriving Communities Institute — amend Agreement No. CT 0101-PS2013 -191 (O 1615-13)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1895
1895
1868
1894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1929
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895

Public Improvements
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot Gates And Replacing Signage — Contracts (O 1229-13) . . . . . .
Denison Avenue underground ductbank and resurfacing project — contract — Amend Sect. 17
of Ord. 908-12 (O 1549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Optima 777, LLC — St. Clair Ave., 777 (former Crowne Plaza Hotel) — Tax Increment
Financing Agreement — Amend Sect(s) 1,4 and 5 of Ord. 1219-11 (Ward 03) (O 1550-13). . . .
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Public Works (O 1498-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Art Projects at the Baldwin and Nottingham Water Treatment Plants — Utilities
Department (O 1594-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

Public Works
Ablewhite Ave. off of Eddy Rd. — secondary and honorary designation of “Samuel A. McNeal
Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward 09) (O 1618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
Accept gift of the 2013 National Senior Games cauldron which is currently on Mall
B — Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Works Department (O 1596-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation Program Grant — Towpath Trail Project,
Stage 3 — Public Works (O 1591-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885

1941

The City Record

78

November 27, 2013

Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC — agreement — capital repairs and improvements —
First Energy Stadium (O 1578-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot Gates And Replacing Signage — Public Improvement Contracts (O 1229-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Day Care Facility — lease property at Earle B. Turner Recreation Center — Council
for Economic Opportunities in Greater Cleveland (CEOGC) (O 1412-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long-term Waste Recycling and Disposal System — professional services — contracts —
Gershman, Brickner & Bratton, Inc. (O 1521-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Solid Waste, transfer and disposal of — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
(O 1499-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patriots Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — agreement — Pierre Nappier Jr.
Foundation (Ward 07 NEF) (O 1617-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets (O 1498-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Service Program, 2014 — Contracts For Food, Food Products, Beverages,
Condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Grants — Recreation Division (O 1232-13) . . . . . . .
Temporary and seasonal personnel — employ temporary employment agencies — Projects
Clean Program — Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1491-13) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

Purchases and Supplies Division
Harvard Rd. and Mill Pond Dr. — Sell City-owned property — PROPSTONE, LLC — behavioral
hospital (O 1470-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
Sell Property on Grand Ave., PPN 126-27-132 — C.A.J. PROPERTIES, LLC (O 1231-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

Recognition
Bejjani, Pierre (American Lebanese Community Council) (R 1632-13) .
Lebanese Independence Day — 70th Anniversary (R 1631-13) . . . . . . . .
Rosenberg, Greg (R 1634-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sabe, Lawrence N. (R 1633-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1868
1868
1868
1868

Resolution of Support
Support Senate Bill 83 dropping time limitations for sex crimes (R 1619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy — Northcoast Brownfield
Assessment Coalition Program — Phase I & II — Henninger Landfill property
(R 1558-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation
Program — Lower Big Creek Project (R 1557-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Oppose license application for Bradley Rd. landfill (Ward 13) (R 1620-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing the impending bank branch closing of the PNC Bank — East 185th St., 609
(Ward 11) (R 1621-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy — Northcoast Brownfield
Assessment Coalition Program — Phase I & II — Henninger Landfill property
(R 1558-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation
Program — Lower Big Creek Project (R 1557-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

Safety Department
Police Enforcement Duty — amend Section 403.01 (O 1635-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
Support Senate Bill 83 dropping time limitations for sex crimes (R 1619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Salaries
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — approve collective bargaining
agreement — Finance Department — Human Resource Department (O 1579-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880
Salary and wage schedules — Sections 40 and 58 — amend Ord. 1689-11 and Ord. 121-13 —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1590-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO (SEIU) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Ord. 1689-11 — Finance Department — Human Resource
Department (O 1588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

Senate Bills
Support Senate Bill 83 dropping time limitations for sex crimes (R 1619-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Special Revenue Funds
Fund transfers — $2,009,000 Million — General Fund — $1,150,000 Million — Special Revenue
Fund — $ 5,605,576 Million — Enterprise Fund — Finance Department (O 1601-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1892

1942

November 27, 2013

The City Record

79

Stadium
Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC — agreement — capital repairs and improvements —
First Energy Stadium (O 1578-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

Street Vacation
East 97th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 06) (R 1414-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Ct., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 07) (R 1502-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Luke Road S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04) (R 1598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 1503-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 19) (R 1343-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 14) (R 1471-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Streets — Name
Ablewhite Ave. off of Eddy Rd. — secondary and honorary designation of “Samuel A. McNeal
Way” — City Planning Commission — Works Department (Ward 09) (O 1618-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Streets Division
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Public Works (O 1498-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

Summer Food Program
Summer Food Service Program, 2014 — contracts for food, food products, beverages,
condiments — Camp George L. Forbes — Grants — Recreation Division — Works
Department (O 1232-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1916

Unions
Service Employees International Union, District 1199, AFL-CIO (SEIU) — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Ord. 1689-11 — Finance Department — Human Resource
Department (O 1588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

Utilities Department
Consulting services for utility-related matters — The Project Group (O 1612-13) . . . . . . . .
Insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors — clean and maintain (O 1595-13) . . . . . . . .
Lease Agreement with CWRU for Kirtland Intake Crib — Wind Turbine (O 1302-13) . . . .
Public Art Projects at the Baldwin and Nottingham Water Treatment Plants (O 1594-13)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1895
1869
1899
1868

Ward 01
Hodo, Pernorse — 100th Birthday — Congratulations (R 1627-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

Ward 02
Day Care Facility — lease property at Earle B. Turner Recreation Center — Council
for Economic Opportunities in Greater Cleveland (CEOGC) — Works Department
(O 1412-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
East 131st St. and Beachwood Ave. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

Ward 03
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aust Ave. — encroach into right -of- way — bollards, backup generator, an electric
transformer, gas meter and utility ductbank — West 25th Street Lofts LLC — Capital
Projects Office (O 1410-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bejjani, Pierre (American Lebanese Community Council) — Recognition (R 1632-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC — agreement — capital repairs and improvements —
First Energy Stadium (O 1578-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., 2317 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1062-13 —
liquor permit (R 1561-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Epstein, Mort — Condolence (R 1625-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., Huron Rd., and East 14th St. — encroach into right-of-way — four gateways
and a chandelier — Playhouse Square Foundation (O 1495-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1943

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

The City Record

80

November 27, 2013

Exempting special event carriage businesses from license requirement — amend
Sections 447.02 and 447.08 (O 1474-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Blvd., 2831 — new application — liquor permit (F 1573-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lebanese Independence Day — 70th Anniversary — Recognition (R 1631-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (between Columbus Rd. and West 17th St.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1604-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry St., N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (R 1503-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1295 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 915-13 — liquor permit
(R 1560-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Optima 777, LLC — St. Clair Ave., 777 (former Crowne Plaza Hotel) — Tax Increment
Financing Agreement — Amend Sect(s) 1,4 and 5 of Ord. 1219-11 (O 1550-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rosenberg, Greg — Recognition (R 1634-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sabe, Lawrence N. — Recognition (R 1633-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy — Northcoast Brownfield
Assessment Coalition Program — Phase I & II — Henninger Landfill property
(R 1558-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation
Program — Lower Big Creek Project (R 1557-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Prospect Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — valet parking area — Tower City Avenue
LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1592-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

Ward 04
Luke Road S.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1598-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
McLemore, Eugene “Baldy” — Condolence (R 1626-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

Ward 05
Arbor Park Phase II Refinancing — amend contract # 57340 (O 1430-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Bldg. — TIF Agreement — Victory Midtown, LLC —
CMSD (O 1548-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1901

Ward 06
East 116th St. (north of Benham Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1414-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. and East 89th St. — encroach into right -of- way — 5-foot wide landscape
buffer strip — PATDAN VA LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 06, 07)
(O 1409-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
True Holiness Temple (formerly Second Church of Christ, Scientist) — Euclid Ave., 7706-14 —
PPN 118-16-004 / 005 / 038 / 039 / 040 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission — Landmarks Commission (O 1607-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

Ward 07
Chester Ave. (between East 97th St. and East 101st St.) — change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1461-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 62nd St. south of Grdina Dr. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(O 1379-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Logan Ct., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1502-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patriots Youth Sports Football Recreation Program — agreement — Pierre Nappier Jr.
Foundation — Works Department (Ward 07 NEF) (O 1617-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. and East 89th St. — encroach into right -of- way — 5-foot wide landscape
buffer strip — PATDAN VA LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 06, 07)
(O 1409-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

Ward 08
Bethany Baptist Church (Aka Zion Evangelical Church) — PPN 109-18-001/ 002/ 003/ 004/ 005 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1077-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Christian Church (Aka Glenville Church Of Christ) — East 105th St., 697; Helena
Ave., 10501-15 — PPN 108-25-058 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(O 1078-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 41 St. (southwest side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1436-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing Grantwood Allotments Historic District (O 1606-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. and East 22nd St. — encroach into right-of-way — utility duct bank — Cleveland
State University — Capital Projects (O 1493-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jacob Vidmar Bldg. — St. Clair Ave., 3830 — PPN 102-20-006 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 1225-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May Company Warehouse — Payne Ave., 4100-40 — PPN 104-32-015 — designate as landmark City Planning Commission (O 1214-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1944

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

November 27, 2013

The City Record

81

Mulberry St. — encroach into right-of-way — surface parking area — K&D Enterprises, Inc.
(O 1494-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900
Otto Narveleit Building — PPN 108-09-036 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission(O 1079-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
Vogt Bldg. — Superior Ave., 3303-07 — PPN 102-19-053 — designate as landmark — City
Planning Commission (O 1226-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899

Ward 09
Ablewhite Ave. off of Eddy Rd. — secondary and honorary designation of “Samuel A. McNeal
Way” — City Planning Commission — Works Department (O 1618-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
St. Clair Ave., 10929 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1576-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

Ward 10
Euclid Ave., 17801 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1577-13) . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 17801 (1st fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1622-13)
Sell Property on Grand Ave., PPN 126-27-132 — C.A.J. PROPERTIES, LLC (O 1231-13) . . . . . .
Sickle Cell Awareness Education Program — agreement — Kincaid’s Kindred Spirits, Inc.,Health Department (Ward 10 NEF) (O 1616-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Ward 11
East 185th St., 770 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1624-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 770 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morrow, Irene M. — Congratulations (R 1628-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing the impending bank branch closing of the PNC Bank — East 185th St., 609 (R 1621-13).
Stickan, Lucy M. Selvaggio — Congratulations (R 1630-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terbrack, George R. — Congratulations (R 1629-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1898
1867
1867
1897
1867
1867

Ward 12
Spafford Rd., 7702 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1623-13) .
Spafford Rd., 7702 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1575-13) . .
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy — Northcoast Brownfield
Assessment Coalition Program — Phase I & II — Henninger Landfill property
(R 1558-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Western Reserve Land Conservancy’s Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation
Program — Lower Big Creek Project (R 1557-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1898
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1914

Ward 13
Oppose license application for Bradley Rd. landfill (R 1620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897

Ward 14
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bejjani, Pierre (American Lebanese Community Council) — Recognition (R 1632-13) . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue underground ductbank and resurfacing project — public improvement
contract — Amend Sect. 17 of Ord. 908-12 (O 1549-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lebanese Independence Day — 70th Anniversary — Recognition (R 1631-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rosenberg, Greg — Recognition (R 1634-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sabe, Lawrence N. — Recognition (R 1633-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 26th PL. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 1471-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1901
1868
1868
1868

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Ward 15
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland, Inc. — amend contracts — West 45th
Street Apartments (O 1597-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Ward 16
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 85th St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 17, 16) (O 1332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
West 117th St., (north side of) Madison Ave. (between West 116th St. and West 115th St.) —
change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Ward 17
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 85th St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 17, 16) (O 1332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902

1945

The City Record

82

November 27, 2013

Ward 18
Lewis, Peter — Condolence (R 1637-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
Lucarelli, Sam — Condolence (R 1636-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

Ward 19
Hansen, Loretta Jean — Condolence (R 1639-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Koehl, Albert J. — Condolence (R 1638-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 17109 — objection to transfer of location — liquor permit (R 1559-13) . . . .
Triskett Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (R 1343-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1915
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1903

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Municipal Solid Waste, transfer and disposal of — Public Works Department (O 1499-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1900

Zoning
Chester Ave. (between East 97th St. and East 101st St.) — change Use, Area and
Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (O 1461-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 41 St. (southwest side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1436-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 62nd St. south of Grdina Dr. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(Ward 07) (O 1379-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St. (north of Benham Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 1602-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st St. and Beachwood Ave. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1603-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (between Columbus Rd. and West 17th St.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1604-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 85th St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 17, 16) (O 1332-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., (north side of) Madison Ave. (between West 116th St. and West 115th St.) —
change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 16)
(O 1605-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1902

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Zoning Code
Oppose license application for Bradley Rd. landfill (Ward 13) (R 1620-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1897

1946

