The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Ninth, Two Thousand and Thirteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

Patricia J. Britt

City Council

3

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The Calendar

16

Board of Control

16

Civil Service

25

Board of Zoning Appeals

34

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
35
Public Notice

35

Public Hearings

35

City of Cleveland Bids

35

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

36

Committee Meetings

56

Index

56

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Paul Bender, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Daryl W. McGinnis, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J.
Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Jomarie Wasik, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Giancarlo Calicchia, John Torres, Robert Vilkas, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Barbara
A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Charles J. Bauernschmidt – Courtroom 12A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2013

Vol. 100

No. 5209

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY OCTOBER 7, 2013
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Cummins, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Polensek.

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Polensek.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1384-13.
Allan Dreyer
Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Mr. Dreyer:
You are requested, without objection of Cleveland City Council, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of the October
7, 2013 Council meeting and for all
matters requiring the Clerk’s signature on October 7, 2013.
Your assistance is appreciated.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 7, 2013
The meeting of the Council was
called to order with the President of
Council, Martin J. Sweeney, in the
Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane,
Kevin J. Kelley, Eugene R. Miller,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, Martin J. Sweeney, Jay Westbrook, Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief of Government Affairs
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Regional Development Chris Warren, Chief
of Education Monyka S. Price, Chief
of Communications Maureen Harper,
Chief
of
Public
Affairs
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Bender, Smith,
Butler, Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Brown,
Fumich, and Ambroz, and Acting
Director Vilkas.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Father John Manning, St Vincent de
Paul Catholic Church, Cleveland,
Ohio (Ward 18). Pledge of Allegiance.

1593

Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney,
Council President
Received.
File No. 1364-13.
From Natoya Walker Minor, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity—
Compliance Report Chapter 188, September
2013
Bi-Monthly
Report.
Received.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 1369-13.
Timothy J. Corcoran, Captain of
Fire. Received.
File No. 1370-13.
Michael B. Fogarty, Lieutenant of
Fire. Received.
File No. 1371-13.
Kenneth Greene,
Fire. Received.

Lieutenant

of

File No. 1372-13.
Vincent Holocker, Captain of Fire.
Received.
File No. 1373-13.
John E. McKenna, Jr., Battalion
Chief of Fire. Received.
File No. 1374-13.
Daniel J. Rocco,
Fire. Received.

Lieutenant

of

The City Record

4
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 1365-13.
From
Department
of
Public
Works, City of Cleveland — Kovacic
Recreation Center Roof and Locker
Room
Improvements.
Contractor:
Envirocom Construction Inc. Contract:
PI2010000000021.
Date
of
Acceptance:
August
30,
2013.
Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1366-13.
RE: #4343573. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
JOKO Enterprises, LLC, d.b.a. The
Monkey Bar & Grill, 5517 Memphis
Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1367-13.
RE: #2850280. Transfer of Location Application, D5 D6. 1404 W 29th,
LLC, d.b.a. Jukebox, 1404-06 West
29th Street. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1368-13.
RE: #41622870010. New License
Application, D4. Italian American
Brotherhood Club, 12501 Mayfield
Road. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 1391-13.
RE: #39938010055. New License
Application, D5J. Host International,
Inc., d.b.a., Sammys Beach Bar &
Grill, 5300 Riverside Drive. (Ward
18). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1392-13—Carol Jean Johnson—Lipscomb.
Res. No. 1393-13—Christine Freeman Sledge.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1394-13—Councilman Jay
Westbrook
(West
Tech
Alumni
Association honoree).
Res.
No.
1395-13—Councilman
Anthony Brancatelli (Polonia Foundation of Ohio Polish Heritage
Award).
Res. No. 1396-13—Cooley Avenue
Church of God — 70th Anniversary.
Res.
No.
1397-13—Mt.
Pleasant
NOW Development Corporation.
Res. No. 1390-13—Shamus Dickinson.
Res. No. 1398-13—Patrick Shepherd
Res. No. 1399-13—Dr. Harry Simmons, M.D., Ph.D.
Res. No. 1400-13—Christen DuVernay.
Res. No. 1401-13—Rev. Malcolm
Himschoot.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1382-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 675.061, establishing a
mobile vending permit within the
Central
Business
District;
and

amending Sections 675.01, 675.04, and
675.09, as amended by Ordinance No.
1657-11, passed November 28, 2011.
Whereas, more and more local
businesses are selling hand-made,
artisan merchandise and goods that
promote Cleveland; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
wants to promote local businesses
selling hand-made, artisan merchandise and goods that promote Cleveland in Downtown Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 675.061 and that Sections 675.01,
675.04, and 675.09 are amended to read
as follows:
Section 675.01 Definitions; Chapter
Scope
(a) For purposes of this chapter:
(1) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(2) “Street Vending” or “Vending”
means selling, offering or displaying
for sale, or soliciting another to purchase, for present or future delivery,
any goods, wares, merchandise, subscriptions, services, pre- packaged
frozen
desserts,
commercially
prepackaged foods and beverages
contained in displays of less than two
hundred (200) cubic feet, or any combination thereof from, in, upon, along,
or through the highways, streets, or
sidewalks, door-to-door on residential
property, or in the open air or from a
temporary shelter or vending device
upon private property.
(3) “Street Vendor” or “Vendor”
means any person who engages in
street vending. “Vendor” does not
include itinerant vendors or itinerant
wholesale produce dealers licensed
under Chapter 682 or food shops or
food vehicles licensed pursuant to
Chapter 241, unless such food shop or
food vehicle licensed under Chapter
241
vends
pre-packaged
frozen
desserts.
(4) “Person” means an individual,
corporation, partnership or association; provided, however, that for purposes of Section 675.02, “person” shall
mean a natural person only.
(5) “Sell” or “selling” includes
barter or bartering.
(6) “Sidewalk” means that portion
of the street between the curb lines or
the lateral lines of a roadway and the
adjacent property line.
(7) “Street” means street, alley,
highway, roadway or avenue, including all curbs along such streets.
(8) “Vending device” means vehicle
or a container used for the sale, display or transport of goods, wares,
or
commercially
merchandise,
prepackaged food or beverages, or
equipment used for menial tasks by a
vendor.
(b) Scope of Chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
sales made to dealers by commercial
travelers or selling agents in the
usual course of business, to bona fide
sales of goods, wares, commercially
prepackaged food or beverages, or
merchandise by samples for future
delivery, to sales at trade shows or

1594

October 9, 2013
conventions, or to sales by charitable
organizations in conjunction with
solicitations for charity.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prohibit the distribution
of non-commercial handbills, cards,
leaflets, or other literature upon the
sidewalks of the City.
Section 675.04 Permits Required
A permit is required in each of the
following circumstances when vending is occurring upon the highways,
streets, or sidewalks, or to business
invitees upon or from private property:
(a) No person shall engage in vending upon or from private property
anywhere in the City without a permit issued in accordance with Section
675.05;
(b) No person shall engage in vending on the highways, streets or sidewalks within the Central Business
District without a permit issued in
accordance with Chapter 508 or without a permit issued in accordance
with Sections 675.06 or 675.061;
(c) No person shall engage in vending while moving continuously from
place to place on the highways,
streets or sidewalks of the Central
Business District without a permit
issued in accordance with Section
675.06;
(d) No person shall engage in vending upon or from a fixed location on a
sidewalk outside of the Central Business District without a permit issued
in accordance with Section 675.07;
(e) No person shall engage in vending while moving continuously from
place to place on the highways,
streets, or sidewalks outside of the
Central Business District without a
permit issued in accordance with Section 675.08.
Section 675.061 Permit: Mobile
Vending Within the Central Business
District
(a) The application for the mobile
vending permit required by division
(b) of Section 675.04 shall be made to
the Director of Capital Projects on
forms prescribed by the Director. On
receipt of a permit application, the
Director of Capital Projects shall
notify the Council member or members in whose ward or wards within
the Central Business District the vendor intends to vend that the application has been received. The application shall contain such information as
the Director may require, including,
but not limited to the following information:
(1) The vendor’s name, address,
and vendor’s license number;
(2) A description of the streets
located within the Central Business
District that the mobile vendor
intends to vend upon. The statement
shall specify the ward or wards in
which the vendor intends to vend;
(3) A description of the mobile
vending device or truck from which
the applicant intends to vend, including its size.
(b) On receipt of a completed application and a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the Director of
Capital Projects shall issue a permit
which shall cover the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 of
the following year.
(c) The permit shall be kept upon
the mobile vending device or truck at
all times during which the vendor is

October 9, 2013
engaged in vending and shall contain
the following information:
(1) The vendor’s name and address;
(2) The ward or wards in which the
vendor is authorized to vend within
the Central Business District;
(3) A description of the mobile
vending device or truck from which
vending is authorized including its
size; and
(4) The permit number and permit
expiration date.
(d) No mobile vendor shall operate
on a public street in a location where
on-street parking is prohibited or a
location prohibited under Section
675.09; and
(e) No mobile vendor shall operate
at the site or within five hundred
(500) feet of a special event or community event except in accordance
with the regulations of Chapter 131
and with authorization to participate
in the event.
(f) No mobile vendor shall operate
on a public sidewalk without a permit
issued under Section 675.06 or Chapter
508.
(g) The Director of Capital Projects is authorized to promulgate
additional rules and regulations necessary for the administration of this
section. Such rules and regulations
shall be published in the City Record
and become effective seven (7) days
after publication thereof.
Section 675.09 Regulations Governing Vendors
(a) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Merchandise” means goods or
wares, and does not include food or
beverages other than prepackaged
frozen
desserts
commercially
prepackaged foods and beverages
contained in displays of less than two
hundred (200) cubic feet.
(2) “Street” means street, alley,
highway, roadway, or avenue.
(b) No vendor shall sell or display
merchandise:
(1) To the occupants of vehicles
stopped in traffic;
(2) From any vehicle, structure, or
device that is situated in any portion
of a street which is designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel;
(3) At a location or in a manner that
hinders or restricts access to a telephone booth, mail box, parking meter,
police or fire call box, traffic control
box, fire hydrant, or sidewalk elevator, or that blocks, obstructs, or
restricts the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles in the lawful use of
the sidewalks or streets; or
(4) From a vending device larger
than twenty-two (22) feet in length
and eight (8) feet in width.
(c) Unless the Director of Capital
Projects makes a determination to
the contrary, which determination is
reflected in the location specified on a
permit issued in accordance with this
chapter, no vendor shall sell or display merchandise:
(1) At any location where the sidewalk is less than ten (10) feet in
width;
(2) Within ten (10) feet of a crosswalk;
(3) Within that portion of a sidewalk bounded by the prolongation of
each intersecting abutting property
line to the respective curblines or
within ten (10) feet thereof;
(4) Within twenty (20) feet of any
doorway or the prolongation of any
doorway width to the curbline;

The City Record
(5) Within fifty (50) feet of another
permitted location, provided however,
that the distance between locations
permitted pursuant to Section 675.06
shall be in accordance with the rules
and regulations promulgated by the
Director of Capital Projects under
division (e) of Section 675.06; or
(6) Within twenty-five (25) feet of
any restaurant doorway, or prolongation or extension thereof.
(d) No vendor shall display merchandise or place lines or other
devices for the display of merchandise on any building or on any utility
pole, planter, tree, trash container, or
other sidewalk fixture.
(e) A vendor who has received a
permit to vend upon private property
shall not encroach into any street or
sidewalk in any way.
(f) No vendor shall place any merchandise in or upon any street or sidewalk, and all vendors shall exercise
reasonable care to ensure that their
merchandise, packaging, display
equipment or other paraphernalia
does not create a health or safety hazard to customers, other users of the
sidewalks and streets, or persons on
abutting property.
(g) No vendor shall engage in vending door-to- door on residential property between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m.
(h) No vendor shall leave a vending
device unattended at any time, leave
a vending device on a sidewalk
between the hours of midnight and
6:00 a.m., or conduct business on a
sidewalk or from a vending device
between those hours.
(i) A vendor who has received a
permit to vend on public property
shall obey any lawful order of a police
officer to remove himself or herself
and his or her vending device entirely
from the sidewalk to avoid congestion or obstruction during an emergency.
(j) A vendor who is required to
move continuously from place to
place shall locate any vending device,
equipment and merchandise adjacent
and parallel to a curb when stopped
for a sale.
(k) A vendor who has received a
mobile vending permit shall abide by
applicable state and local traffic laws
and obey any lawful order of a police
officer or traffic controller to move or
relocate a vending device.
(l) No vendor shall make any loud
or unreasonable noise for the purpose
of advertising or drawing attention to
merchandise or for any other purpose.
(m) All vendors shall comply with
all requirements of applicable state
and local law, including, without limitation, the City’s Fire Prevention
Code and State of Ohio Fire Code.
(n) No person shall vend pre-packaged frozen desserts within the City
who has been convicted of or pled
guilty to any of the following criminal offenses:
(1) Any offense involving a minor;
(2) Any sexually oriented offense,
including, but not limited to, corruption of a minor, sexual imposition,
importuning, voyeurism, public indecency, procuring, soliciting, prostitution, loitering for the purpose of
engaging in prostitution, disseminating material harmful to juveniles,
deception to obtain material harmful
to juveniles, possession of obscene
material involving a minor, posses-

1595

5
sion of sexually oriented material
involving a minor, possession of nudity-oriented material involving a
minor, and displaying matter harmful
to juveniles;
(3) Any assault within seven (7)
years after service of sentence after
conviction or guilty plea;
(4)
Unlawful
possession
of
weapons within five (5) years after
conviction or guilty plea; and
(5) Any homicide offense in RC
Chapter 2903 or any substantially similar homicide offense under any
municipal or state law.
(o) Any applicant for a license or
permit under this chapter to vend prepackaged frozen desserts shall list on
the application their name, address,
date of birth, and social security number, and shall provide an affidavit
stating that the applicant has not
been convicted of or pled guilty to any
of the criminal offenses listed in division (m) of this section. Any employer applying for a permit to vend prepackaged frozen desserts shall list
the name, address, date of birth, and
social security number of each
employee or person who will be vending pre-packaged frozen desserts.
(p) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall refuse to
grant a license or permit under this
chapter to vend pre-packaged frozen
desserts or shall revoke a license or
permit under this chapter to vend prepackaged frozen desserts, for any one
(1) or more of the following reasons:
(1) The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty to any criminal
offense involving a minor or any
other criminal offense listed in division (m) of this section;
(2) The applicant fails to provide
the information required by division
(n) of this section;
(3) The applicant makes or made a
false statement in the license or permit application; or
(4) The applicant fails to report a
conviction that occurs during the
license or permit period.
(q) No person shall vend pre-packaged frozen desserts without posting
the permit in a conspicuous location
in each vehicle used to vend pre-packaged frozen desserts.
(r) On every permit to vend prepackaged frozen desserts, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall list the name of each employee or individual authorized to vend
pre-packaged frozen desserts on
behalf of the applicant.
(s) There shall be no vending of
pre-packaged frozen desserts after
9:00 p.m.
(t) No vendor operating pursuant to
a permit granted under Section 675.06
or 676.061 shall employ more than two
(2) salespersons in the operation of
its vending device or display.
Section 2. That existing Sections
675.01, 675.04, and 675.9 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1657-11,
passed
November
28,
2011,
are
repealed.  
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

6
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Service,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1383-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating
Committee for state funding for the
rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road; to
accept grants from the Ohio Public
Works Commission for the improvements; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to apply for and
accept grants from the Northeast
Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
and the Federal Highway Administration; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into contracts and agreements to design and
construct the improvements; authorizing the Director to accept cash
contributions from public and private entities; authorizing the Director to enter into a Local Project
Administration agreement with the
Ohio Department of Transportation;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
acquire for right-of-way purposes
real property necessary to make the
public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is authorized to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee for
state funding of the following infrastructure capital improvements:
1. U.S. Route 42 (Pearl Road) rehabilitation, from Brookpark Road to
Interstate 71;
2. Scranton/Carter Road rehabilitation, from Fairfield Avenue to Columbus Road; and
3. Warner Road rehabilitation, from
Grand Division Avenue to Broadway
Avenue.
Section 2. That the Mayor is authorized to accept a grant in the approximate
aggregate
amount
of
$10,928,912, from the Ohio Public
Works Commission, acting by and
through its Director, to finance the
public improvements of rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter,
and Warner Road (the “Improvement”); that the Mayor is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 3. That, provided the City
sells future bonds authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the City of
Cleveland is obligated to provide cash
matching funds in the amount of the
local share.
Section 4. That, provided the City
sells future bonds authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional design,

The City Record
engineering and construction services necessary for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement as described in
this ordinance, for the Office of Capital Projects, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 6. That, provided the City
sells future bonds authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each
separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit
basis.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA
for infrastructure restoration costs
associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the Improvement and
costs associated with implementing
green infrastructure features to
address combined sewer overflows.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 9. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire for right-of-way purposes real
property necessary to make the
Improvement. The consideration to be
paid for the property shall not exceed
fair market value to be determined by
the Board of Control.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute,
on behalf of the City, all documents
necessary to acquire property and to
employ and pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more Local Project Administration agreements with the Ohio
Department of Transportation to fund
and construct the Improvement.

1596

October 9, 2013
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept Federal Transportation
Enhancement grant funds from Federal Highway Administration, to construct the Improvement. The Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 13. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
apply to NOACA to pursue economic
assistance, on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, for the Improvement.
Section 14. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
accept the funds from NOACA for the
Improvement, and those funds are
appropriated for the purposes stated
in this ordinance.
Section 15. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash match, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited any grant proceeds authorized
under this ordinance, the fund or
funds to which are credited any funds
received under the Local Project
Administration agreement, the fund
or funds to which are credited any
funds secured by NOACA, the fund or
funds to which are credited any proceeds from the sale of future bonds
authorized for this purpose, from cash
contributions accepted and appropriated under this ordinance, and from
any other funds approved by the
Director of Finance for this purpose.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1385-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
with ZOLL Data Systems for the
acquisition of one or more Rescue
Net ePCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire
RMS software licenses to implement
a
records
management
system,
including training, data migration,
project
management,
deployment
services, maintenance, technical support, and other related services, for
a period of one year after the warranty on the software expires, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with ZOLL
Data Systems for the acquisition of
one or more Rescue Net ePCR Suite
and Rescue Net Fire RMS software
licenses to implement a records man-

The City Record

October 9, 2013
agement system, including training,
data migration, project management,
deployment services, maintenance,
technical support, and other related
services, for a period of one year after
the warranty on the software expires,
on the basis of its proposal dated September 20, 2013, in the total sum of
$178,435, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety. The contract or contracts shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 553 and 11 SF 006,
RQS 6001, RL 2013-152.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1402-13.
By Council Members Keane, Pruitt,
K. Johnson, Kelley and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 683-09,
passed May 18, 2009, relating to the
sale of the Convention Center and
Malls B and C to the County to
develop a Medical Mart, and authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into a Donor Advised Agreement with the Cleveland Foundation
in order to establish, manage, and
implement a City College Scholarship Fund for City residents.
Whereas,
among
other
things,
Ordinance No. 683-09, passed May 18,
2009, related to the sale of the Convention Center and Malls B and C
to the County to develop a Medical
Mart, and authorized the Director of
Finance to enter into an agreement
with a local foundation to manage
a City College Scholarship Fund

established by the foundation for
graduates of the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to be funded
from a portion of the proceeds of the
sale of the Convention Center and
Malls B and C; and
Whereas, through an Agreement,
the City desires to specify the Cleveland Foundation as the local foundation to establish, manage, and
implement a City of Cleveland Scholarship Fund; and
Whereas, under that Agreement,
the City will transmit to the Cleveland Foundation up to $2 million
dollars for that purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
9 of Ordinance No. 683-09, passed May
18, 2009, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at 500 Lakeside Avenue, also
known as 1220 East 6th Street, The
Convention Center and Malls B and C
to the County of Cuyahoga, for purposes of developing a Medical Mart
facility; authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
reserve certain easement interests in
Malls B and C for the purpose of creating and maintaining public park
space; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County regarding the redevelopment
of the property; and authorizing the
Director of Finance to enter into a
Donor Advised Agreement with the
Cleveland Foundation to establish,
manage, and implement a City of
Cleveland Scholarship Fund for City
residents; and authorizing the Direc-

7
tor of Public Service to issue a permit
to Cuyahoga County Commissioners,
or their designee, to encroach above,
upon and below public rights-of-way
immediately adjacent to and within
the areas described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That assisting Cleveland’s high school graduates to
defray the cost of up to four years of
their college education will have a
significant positive impact on our
City by better preparing our youth to
be successful in life, by attracting
families to stay in and move to the
City, and by providing Cleveland
employers with a better education
and more skilled workforce. For this
reason, the Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into a Donor
Advised Agreement with the Cleveland Foundation in the amount of $2
million dollars to establish, manage,
and implement the City of Cleveland
Scholarship Fund in order to meet the
objectives of this section using a portion of funds received from the sale of
the Convention Center and Malls B
and C as authorized by this ordinance.
The Donor Advised Agreement shall
be substantially in the same form as
the Agreement contained in File No.
1402-13-A. The cost of establishing,
managing, and implementing the
Scholarship Fund shall not exceed
$2,000,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 10 SF 120.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 9 of Ordinance No. 683-09,
passed May 18, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1375-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height District of lands south of Detroit Avenue on the east side of West
55th Street shown shaded on the attached map to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (Map Change Number 2459).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the centerline of West 55th Street at its Southerly terminus being on a Northerly line of land conveyed
to Richard A. Piparinen and Laura E. Morello by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200805280384 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-15-031;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 55th Street to the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of land
conveyed to JoAnn C. Hunt by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200002011142 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-15-003;
Thence along said Southerly line of said land conveyed to JoAnn C. Hunt and its Westerly prolongation to the Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt and James Wade Jr. Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49 and
50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt and James Wade Jr. Subdivision, to the said Northerly line of land conveyed to Richard A. Piiparinen and Laura E. Morello;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land conveyed to Richard A. Piiparinen and Laura E. Morello and said
Southerly terminus of West 55th Street to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2459, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1597

8

The City Record

October 9, 2013

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1376-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of lands located on the east and west sides of W. 73rd Street between Guthrie
Avenue and Colgate Avenue to a Two Family Residential District (Map Change No. 2454).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Guthrie Avenue and the Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line
of Sublot No. 172 in the Elwell and Marvin’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 28 as shown on the
plat recorded in Volume 3, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Guthrie Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 32 in Elwell and Marvin’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 28 as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 3, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 32 and its Northerly prolongation and the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 95 in said Elwell and Marvin’s Subdivision and its Southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Lawn Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Lawn Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of Sublot No. 41 in the James M. Hoyt Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 28 and 33 as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 3, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 41, its Northerly prolongation and its Southerly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Lawn Court;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Lawn Court to its intersection with the Northwesterly prolongation of the
Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 45 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 45 and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot No. 43 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot No. 43 to the Southwesterly line of
Sublot No. 44 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 44 and its Southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Elton Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Elton Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 73rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 73rd Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 49 in the aforementioned James M. Hoyt Subdivision;

1598

October 9, 2013

The City Record

9

Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the southwesterly
line of Sublot No. 50 in the aforementioned James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 50, and along its Southeasterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Elton Court;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Elton Court to its intersection with the Northwesterly prolongation of
the Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 88 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 88, its Northwesterly prolongation and its Southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Colgate Avenue N.W.;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Colgate Avenue N.W. to its intersection with the centerline of W. 73rd
Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 73rd Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of a
Northerly line of Sublot No. 593 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 593 and its Easterly prolongation to a Southerly corner thereof;
Thence Northwesterly along an Easterly line of said Sublot No. 593 and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Elton Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Elton Avenue to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation
Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 597 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 597, its Southeasterly prolongation and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Dudley Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Dudley Avenue to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 710 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 710, its Southerly prolongation, its Northerly prolongation and
the Easterly line of Sublot No. 713 in said James M. Hoyt Subdivision, its Southerly prolongation and its Northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Lawn Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Lawn Avenue to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot No. 175 in the said Elwell and Marvin’s Allotment;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 175 and its Southerly prolongation and the Easterly line said
Sublot No. 172 and its Northerly prolongation to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2454 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1599

10

The City Record

October 9, 2013

Ord. No. 1377-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of lands located on the west side of W. 65th Street between Madison Avenue
and Lorain Avenue as shown shaded on the attached map to a Local Retail Business District (Map Change No. 2453).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of West 65th Street with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 65th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Colgate Court;
Thence westerly and southwesterly along said easterly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the
southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 121 in the James. M. Hoyt Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Colgate Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Colgate Avenue to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation
of the northeasterly line of Sublot Number 4 in the aforementioned James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation and said northeasterly line to its intersection with the
easterly line of Sublot Number 13 in the aforementioned James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said easterly line of Sublot Number 13 and continuing along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Lawn Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Lawn Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 71 in the Elwell & Marvin Sub. In Original Lot 33 recorded in Volume 3, Page 34 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Guthrie Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Guthrie Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 5 in the aforementioned Elwell & Marvin Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 65th Street and
the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2453 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1600

October 9, 2013

The City Record

11

Ord. No. 1378-13.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of lands located on the west side of W. 65th Street south of Lorain
to Two Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change No.2455).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of an Easterly line of the James M. Hoyt Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 28 and 33 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 3, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County Map Records with the
Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 18 in the Rhineland Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 33 as shown
on the plat recorded in Volume 3, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 18 and the Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 17 in the
Rhineland Allotment to a point;
Thence Southerly to a point on the Southerly line of Sublot No. 19 in said Rhineland Allotment;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot 19 and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 65th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 65th Street to its intersection with the centerline of the East bound
lane of Interstate 90;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of the East bound lane of Interstate 90 to its intersection with the centerline of West 66th Place, part vacated;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 66th Place, part vacated to its Northerly terminus on the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 36 in J. Sargent’s Re-Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 33 as shown on the plat
recorded in Volume 18, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly terminus of West 66th Place and the Northerly line of Sublot No. 35 in said J.
Sargent’s Re-Subdivision to its intersection with said Easterly line of the James M. Hoyt Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of the James M. Hoyt Subdivision to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District and a ‘B’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2455and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1601

12

The City Record

October 9, 2013

Ord. No. 1379-13.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of land located on the west side of E. 62nd Street south of Grdina
Drive to Residence Industry and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change No. 2456).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Saint Clair Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 62nd Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of E. 62nd Street to and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the northeasterly prolongation of the centerline of Grdina Drive;
Thence southwesterly along said prolongation and said centerline of Grdina Drive to its intersection with the southwesterly line of the Foreman, Bates & Stone Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 8, Page 26 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 140 in the aforementioned Foreman, Bates & Stone Subdivision;
Thence northeasterly along said southwesterly prolongation of said northerly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 62nd Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of E. 62nd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Saint Clair
Avenue and the principal place of beginning;
and as shown shaded on the attached map is changed to a Residence Industry District, and a ‘B’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2456 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

1602

October 9, 2013
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1380-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Hispanic
Roundtable
Community
Programs to stretch a banner across
Lorain Avenue at West 30th Street
for the period from October 10, 2013
to
October
25,
2013,
inclusive,
announcing the Convencion Hispana
2013.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
the Hispanic Roundtable Community
Programs to install, maintain and
remove a cross street banner on
Lorain Avenue at West 30th Street,
for the period from October 10, 2013 to
October 25, 2013, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director
of Capital Projects, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety, as
to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1386-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Conwell, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
lease certain property located at
2025 Ontario Street from Euclid of
Cleveland, LLC, or their designee,
for the public purpose of operating
the Family Justice Center, for a
term of five years, with one option
to renew for an additional five year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Public Safety; authorizing the
Director to apply for and accept
grants and gifts from any public or
private entity for the operation of
the Family Justice Center; and to
enter into a Cooperation Agreement
with Cuyahoga County.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Department of Public Safety, the
Cleveland
Municipal
Court
and

The City Record
Cuyahoga County Public Safety &
Justice Services desire to cooperate
in providing a Family Justice Center that will serve victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, child
abuse, and elder abuse; and
Whereas, the model for the Family Justice Center is designed to
address pitfalls commonly faced by
victims, including an often fragmented assistance system and services offered at the Family Justice
Center will bridge the gap by offering a more rational, collaborative,
victim-centered
service
delivery
approach with increased data and
information
sharing
capabilities;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
requires certain property located at
2025 Ontario Street for the public
purpose of operating the Family
Justice Center; and
Whereas, Euclid of Cleveland,
LLC, or their designee, has proposed
to lease the space to the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County will
share in the cost of operating the
Family Justice Center; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Safety is
authorized to lease from Euclid of
Cleveland, LLC, or their designee, certain property more fully described as
2025 Ontario Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed five years, with one option to
renew for an additional five year period, exercisable by the Director of Public Safety.
Section 3. That the rent for the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall be
an annual rental of no more than
$170,200, plus the security deposit and
allocable utility, operating, and maintenance costs, and shall be subject to
annual appropriation; the annual
rental for the option term shall not
increase by more than 3% of the initial rental amount.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the City to make improvements to
the leased premises under terms to be
determined by the parties to be consistent with the public purpose or purposes of operating the Family Justice
Center.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into a
cooperative agreement or agreements
with Cuyahoga County for the purpose of operating the Family Justice
Center and to accept payment from
the County for its share of the costs of
the cooperative agreement, which
payment shall be appropriated for
that purpose if made in advance.
Section 6. That the Director is
authorized to enter into agreements
with other entities for purposes related to the operation of the Family Justice Center, and is authorized to
accept funds related to operation,
which funds shall be appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept grants and gifts from public and private entities for the opera-

1603

13
tion of the Family Justice Center. The
Director is further authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds accepted under this ordinance and, upon
acceptance of the funds by the Director, they shall be appropriated for the
purposes of this ordinance.
Section 8. That the costs of the lease
shall be paid from Fund No. 01-60016360, Request No. RQS 6001, RL 2013153.
Section 9. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Safety, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1387-13.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance an emergency ordinance authorizing the
Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for
the Neighborhood Technology Center Program through the use of
Ward 2 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation for the
Neighborhood Technology Center
Program for the public purpose of providing computer training to the residents of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 2 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $13,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record

14
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1381-13.
By Council Members Conwell and J.
Johnson.
An emergency resolution opposing
that portion of House Bill 203 which
is the State of Ohio’s version of the
“stand your ground” law.
Whereas, H.B. 203, introduced in
the Ohio House of Representatives
on June 11, 2013, proposes amendments to Ohio’s carrying concealed
weapons law by expanding the circumstances under which a person
has no duty to retreat before using
lethal force in self-defense; and
Whereas, Ohio law currently contains what is known as the “castle
doctrine”, which states that an individual does not have a duty to
retreat from his or her home or vehicle; and
Whereas, H.B. 203 would make it
legal to fight back using deadly
force rather than encouraging citizens to retreat from potentially confrontational situations; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
that portion of House Bill 203 which is
the State of Ohio’s version of the
“stand your ground” law.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to all members of the Ohio
legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 1.
Those voting Yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins,
Dow,
J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting Nay: Council Member Reed.
Res. No. 1388-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution recognizing National Messenger Appreciation Day in Cleveland on October
9, 2013.
Whereas, a solution to the problems of pollution, congestion and
gridlock faced by large urban cen-

ters is needed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the downtown core;
and
Whereas, bicycles take up less
space on the road and do less damage to the roads than cars, resulting in better conditions and streets
for all road users; and
Whereas, Cleveland is recognized
as a bronze level bicycle friendly
community and has a growing number of bicycle focused businesses;
and
Whereas, Bike Cleveland launched
the Ride Together campaign, a public awareness campaign to educate
the public on the rights of bicycles
on public roadways, to make our
street safer; and
Whereas, bicycle messengers are
ambassadors of goodwill for the
city; and
Whereas, bicycle messengers promote the bicycle as a viable form of
transportation and economic development; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council recognizes National Messenger Appreciation Day in Cleveland on October 9,
2013.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to Jacob VanSickle, Executive Director, Bike Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1389-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 4213 East 131st
Street and repealing Resolution No.
1740-12, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 4213 East
131st Street by Resolution No. 174012 adopted by the Council on December 3, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Jermel Griffin,
DBA The Block Food and Beverages,
LLC, 4213 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
3380146, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 174012, containing such objection, be and

1604

October 9, 2013
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1222-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 699A.011 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 351-13,
passed March 18, 2013 relating to Community
Entertainment
Districts
defined.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1224-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more concession
agreements for the operation of a
first-class food and beverage service
at the Carl B. Stokes Facility, for a
period of one year, with two one-year
options to renew, the second of which
requires
additional
legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1235-13.
By Council Members Conwell, Kelley and Reed (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
FY 13 Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with the Partnership for a
Safer Cleveland and Case Western
Reserve University to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 6 to read as
follows:
“Section 6.
That the Director of
Public Safety shall provide an evi-

October 9, 2013
dence-based status report every six
months to the Public Safety Committee.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 6
and 7 to new “Section 7” and “Section 8”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1236-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 13 State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant for the
operation of the Northern Ohio Law
Enforcement Task Force (NOLETF)
); and authorizing the Director to
enter into agreements with various
municipalities or governmental agencies needed to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 6 to read as
follows:
“Section 6.
That the Director of
Public Safety shall provide an evidence-based status report every six
months to the Public Safety Committee.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 6 to
new “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1238-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 13 State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
for the Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium (NOVCC) Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with Kent State
University and various municipalities
to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 6 to read as
follows:
“Section 6.
That the Director of
Public Safety shall provide an evidence-based status report every six
months to the Public Safety Committee.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 6
and 7 to new “Section 7” and “Section 8”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record

15

In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1239-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the FY 2013 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
grant for the Cleveland Domestic Violence Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1242-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 871-13,
passed July 10, 2013; to supplement
the ordinance by adding new Section
6; and to renumber existing Sections 6
and 7 to new “Section 7” and “Section
8”, relating to authorizing a Tax
Increment
Financing
Agreement
with Geis Companies, or its designee,
to provide for the redevelopment of
the Ameritrust complex.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1.
Strike
the
second
whereas
clause in its entirety and insert:
“Whereas, the Real Property will
be improved according to the Blight
Study and Redevelopment Plan contained in File No. 871-13-A, a copy of
which is placed in File No. 1242-13A, and according to the Legislative
Summary, the Sources and Uses of
Funds for Project document, and the
LEED for Homes Mid-rise Pilot Simplified Project Checklist copies of
which are placed in File Nos. 124113-A and 1241-13-B; and”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1240-13.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Windstream Lines for telecommunication service lines needed for Automated Meter Reading (AMR), SCADA
control, security cameras, and telephones at Ledge Tower, Darrow
Tower, Shepard Tower and the South
Twinsburg Tower located in Twinsburg, Northfield, and Macedonia,
Ohio, which are outside of Cuyahoga
County and beyond the AT&T service
area; and to authorize payment of
monthly charges to Windstream, for a
period up to three years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1241-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with 1717 East
9th LLC, or its designee, to provide for
improvements; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District; and to declare certain
improvements to real property to be a
public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1.
Strike
the
fourth
whereas
clause in its entirety and insert:
“Whereas, the Real Property will
be improved according to the Blight
Study and Redevelopment Plan, the
Legislative
Summary,
and
the
Sources and Uses of Funds for Project document which are placed in
File Nos. 1241-13-A and 1241-13-B.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1605

Ord. No. 1293-13.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Brownell Court, S.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 1237-13.
By Council Members Conwell and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice,
Office
of
Juvenile
Justice
Delinquency Prevention, for the FY
13 Community Based Violence Prevention Program; and authorizing
the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies and entities to implement the
grant.
Without objection Ordinance No.
1237-13 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid
on the table pursuant to Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Ordinance No. 1237-13
Laid on the Table.

The City Record

16
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:52 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 14, 2013, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Allan Dreyer
Deputy Clerk/Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

September 18, 2013
The following Resolutions were
adopted at the regular meeting of
the Board of Control on Wednesday,
September 18, 2013 but were omitted
from the September 25, 2013 City
Record.
Resolution No. 539-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Highland Products Group,
LLG, for an estimated quantity of
single stream recycle stations, bid
items 5, 6, 7 and 8, including bid
alternate items 5-A and 5-C, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal,
Department
of
Public
Works, for a period of one (1) year
beginning on the date of execution
of a contract, with two (2) one-year
options
to
renew,
received
on
August 30, 2013, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 732-07, 51-09, 560-11
11 and 727-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on June 11,
2007, March 2, 2009, June 6, 2011 and
May 20, 2013, respectively, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would
amount
to
$56,50000,
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods.
Be it further resolved that the
requirement contract shall provide
that the Contractor shall furnish all
of the City’s requirements for the
goods and/or services, whether more
or less than the estimated quantity,
as may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

Resolution No. 540-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Northeast Lubricants,
Ltd., for an estimated quantity of
antifreeze/coolant, all items, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works,
for the period of 2 years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on August 16, 2013,
under the authority of Section 131.64
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$171,727.10
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 541-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC.,
for an estimated quantity of re-manufactured Allison transmissions and
repairs, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, for a period
of two years, beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on June 19, 2013 under the
authority of Section 131.64 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$521,139.50 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Works is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 542-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cleveland Hermetic and
Supply, Inc., for an estimated quantity of HVAC/R items, materials,
parts, and equipment, all items, for
the Division of Property Management. Department of Public Works,
for the period of two years, beginning with the date of execution of

1606

October 9, 2013
a contract, received on July 17, 2013,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $248,500.00 (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
the
goods
and/or
services,
for
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 543-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of W. W. Williams Midwest,
Inc. dba W. W. Williams, for an estimated quantity of generator maintenance and repairs, all items, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, for period of one year, beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, with two one-year renewal options received on June 19, 2013,
under the authority of Section 131.64
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$136,178.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 544-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 528-13, adopted September
11, 2013, authorized the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 116-10-018, 116-10-019 and 116-10021 to Pharmacy Whole Sale Logistics for green space, as part of the
City Land Reutilization Program
established under Ordinance No.
2076-76, passed by the Cleveland
City Council on October 25, 1976; and
Whereas, in the fourth paragraph
Resolution No. 528-13 incorrectly
identified the proposed purchaser of
the parcel to be sold as ‘Pharmacy
Whole Sale Logistics”; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 528-13, adopted by

October 9, 2013
this Board September 11, 2013, authorizing the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel Nos. 116-10-018,
116-10-019 and 116-10-021 to Pharmacy Whole Sale Logistics for green
space, is amended by substituting
“Pharmacy
Wholesale
Logistics,
Inc.” for “Pharmacy Whole Sale
Logistics”, where appearing in the
resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
528-13 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 545-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reuti(“Program”)
lization
Program
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 021-24-062 located at 3350 West
125th Street in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Katherine Weaver and
David Weaver have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Katherine
Weaver and David Weaver for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 021-24-062 located at 3350
West 125th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.

The City Record
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 546-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 126-30-045, 126-30-046, 126-30-047,
126-30-058 and 126-30-059 located on
East 81st and East 82nd Street in
Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas,
OMC
Fellowship
C.O.G.I.C. has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcels
for a market garden; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with OMC Fellowship
C.O.G.I.C. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 12630-045, 126-30-046, 126-30-047, 126-30058 and 126-30-059 located on East
81st and East 82nd Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $1,000.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 547-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 134-11-034 located at 7216 Deveny Avenue in Ward 12; and

1607

17
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Eric Mosier has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Eric Mosier for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 134-11-034 located at
7216 Deveny Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 548-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
132-15-103
located
at
6920
Gertrude Avenue in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Walter R. Eddy has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;

18
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183,021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Walter R. Eddy
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 132-15-103 located
at 6920 Gertrude Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 549-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 019-21-122 located at 12801 Firsby Avenue in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Kernels Property Group
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Kernels Property
Group for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 019-21-122
located at 12801 Firsby Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.

The City Record
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 550-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 027-35-059 located at 14314 Rockfern Avenue in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Gary Layman has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Gary Layman for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 027-35-059 located at
14314 Rockfern Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 551-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)

1608

October 9, 2013
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 022-13-060 located at 3830 West
133rd Street in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Cheryl Joan Shirokey
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 181021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Cheryl Joan Shirokey for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 022-13-060
located at 3830 West 133rd Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00. which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 552-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-27-073 located at 5897 Cable
Avenue in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, James and Laura Beadling have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

October 9, 2013
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with James and Laura
Beadling for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12527-073 located at 5897 Cable Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 553-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 021-32-036 located at 3367 West
136th Street in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas,
Vanessa
Jakubowski
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Vanessa

The City Record
Jakubowski for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 02132-036 located at 3367 West 136th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Acting Director Gehlmann, Directors
Rush, Southerington, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 2, 2013
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 2, 2013
at 10:40 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others:
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
R.
Vilkas,
Acting
Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 571-13.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of GBS Corp. for an estimated quantity of Criminal and Civil filing system, all items for the Department of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court Clerk of Courts, for
the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, with a one-year option to
renew, received on August 23, 2013
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101,
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $69,223.50 (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court Clerk of Courts, is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified
goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

1609

19
Resolution No. 572-13.
By Director Bender.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Bonded Chemicals, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of potassium permanganate, items 1-A and 1B, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years starting upon the
later of the execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods or services, received on
August 15, 2013 under the authority
of Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $785,500.00
(Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 573-13.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Kokosing Construction Company, Inc. under City
Contract No. PS2012*262 to provide
design/build services for the Parking Redevelopment Program - Phase
I, authorized by Ordinance No. 24711, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on June 6, 2011, and
Board of Control Resolution No. 45312, adopted September 5, 2012, is
approved.
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Ballast Construction, Inc.
d/b/a Ballast Fence
0.072% CSB/FBE
$10,800.00
Brilliant Electric
Sign Co., LTD

The Awning Company

Petty Group, LLC

Terrace Construction
Company, Inc.

0.354% CSB
$53,413.00
0.622% CSB
$93,756.00
0.189% MBE
$28,520.00

0.246% CSB
$37,037.50

PGT Construction, Inc.
0.261% CSB/FBE
$39,325.00
The Precision Co.
d/b/a Precision Pro-Cut
0% CSB
To be determined
Resource International,
Inc.
Non-certified
$15,000.00

The City Record

20
Cleveland Door
Controls

Non-Certified
$21,230.00

A-1 Industrial Painting Non-certified
$26,440.00
Multi-vista Construction
Document
Non-certified
$ 5,993.00
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following 2nd
tier subcontractors to Kokosing Construction Company, Inc. under City
Contract No. PS2012*262 is approved.
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

CJI, Inc.

Coleman Spohn
Corporation

0.506% FBE
$ 76,300.00

0.735% CSB/MBE
$110,830.00

Dependable Painting
Co., Inc.
0.046% CSB/FBE
$ 6,920.00
North Coast Concrete,
Inc.

0.597% CSB
$ 90,000.00

Total Roofing Services,
LLC
0.107% CSB/FBE
$ 16,060.00
Action Door

0.135% CSB/FBE
$20,308.00

A.E. Steel Erectors,
Inc.

Lorain Glass Co., Inc.

L.M.R. Construction
Company, Inc.

Non-certified
$132,950.00
Non-certified
$ 8,866.00

Non-certified
$ 7,100.00

Messina Floor Covering,
LLC
Non-certified
$ 13,300.00
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 574-13.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas,
MVP
Valet
Services
wishes to use the Willard Park
Garage to offer valet parking services to the general public for various events to be held at Cleveland
Convention Center;
Whereas, the City is willing to
grant MVP Valet Services the privilege, permit and license to use the
Willard Park Garage for the abovementioned purpose and term for a
fee of $450.00 per event plus $5.00
per vehicle; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Cod-

ified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement granting MVP
Valet Services the privilege, permit
and license to use Willard Park
Garage on October 11, 2013 for an
event to be held at Public Auditorium, for a concession fee of $450.00
plus $5.00 per vehicle.
DATE

EVENT
Best of Cleveland
Party

October 11, 2013

Be it further resolved that the concession agreement authorized above
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 575-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Trafftech Inc., for the
installation of Thermo and Epoxy
Paving markings, all items, for the
Division of Traffic and Engineering,
Department of Public Works, for a
period of one year, beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with two one-year renewal options,
received on September 20, 2013,
under the authority of Section 181.01
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$84,265.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requesting to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 576-13.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company dba Wingfoot Commercial Tire Systems, LLC, for an
estimated quantity of various new
tires, tubes, services, supplies, and
tire recapping, all items, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works,
for a period of one year, beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, with two one-year renewal
options received on August 29, 2013,
under the authority of Section 131.64
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would

1610

October 9, 2013
amount
to
$852,000.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 577-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
008-16-140
located
at
1807
No.
Brainard Avenue in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Eric Lutzo has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
the parcel for green space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Eric Lutzo for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 008-16-140 located at
1807 Brainard Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

October 9, 2013
Resolution No. 578-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-08-021 located at 5407 St.
Clair Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Abajibapashree, Inc. has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for new construction; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Abajibapashree,
Inc. for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
105-08-021
located at 5407 St. Clair Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $18,000.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 579-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 017-07-012 located at 3269 West
86th Street in Ward 16; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

The City Record
Whereas, Michael Hamilton has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 16 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Michael Hamilton
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 017-07-012 located
at 3269 West 86th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 580-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
at
11703
No.
111-06-051
located
Oakview Avenue in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Alisa Hill has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is

1611

21
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Alisa Hill for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 111-06-051 located at 11703
Oakview Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 581-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 002-35-215 located at 1842 West
50th Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Richard H. Swager has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the Northerly Portion of the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Richard H. Swager for the sale and development of
the Northerly Portion of Permanent
Parcel No. 002-35-215 located at 1842
West 50th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

22
Resolution No. 582-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 002-35-215 located at 1842 West
50th Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Matthew Fehrmann has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the Southerly Portion of the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Matthew
Fehrmann for the sale and development of the Southerly Portion of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
002-35-215
located at 1842 West 50th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Rush,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 583-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 131-35-011 located at 3691 East
52nd Street in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

The City Record
Whereas, Teresa Boothe has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Teresa Boothe for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 131-35-011 located at
3691 East 52nd Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Rush,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 584-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 020-11-070 located at 11751 Longemead Avenue in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Elizabeth Fowler and
Mark Kennedy have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when direct-

1612

October 9, 2013
ed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Elizabeth Fowler
and Mark Kennedy for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 020-11-070 located at 11751 Longemead Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Directors
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 585-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Nos.
016-07-026 and 016-07-029 located at
3194 and 3204 West 61st Street in
Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, NxGen Preserve has proposed to the City to lease and develop the parcel for a community garden; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of three years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with NxGen Preserve
for the lease and development of
Permanent Parcel Nos. 016-07-026
and 016-07-029 located at 3194 and
3204 West 61st Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the parcel shall be a one-time fee of $3.00,
which amount is determined to be

October 9, 2013
not less than the fair market value
of the parcel for uses according to
the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 586-13.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Nos.
133-02-023, 133-03-055, 133-04-046, 13304-048, 133-04-084, 133-05-064, 133-05077, 133-05-105 and 133-05-108, located
at East 75th Street, East 74th Street,
East 76th Street and East 78th
Street in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Cleveland Botanical Garden has proposed to the City to
lease and develop the parcels for a
storm water management project;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
lease or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of three years which the Director of Community Development may
terminate at the end of any term
year upon 30 days’ prior written
notice, for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Cleveland Botanical Garden for the lease and development of Permanent Parcel Nos.
133-02-023, 133-03-055, 133-04-046, 13304-048, 133-04-084, 133-05-064, 133-05077, 133-05-105 and 133-05-108, located
at East 75th Street, East 74th Street,
East 76th Street and East 78th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the
parcels shall be a one-time leasing
fee of $3.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors

The City Record
Rush,
Southerington,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

23
Nichols,

Resolution No. 587-13.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989, as amended by Ordinance No. 1166-96, passed June 9,
1997, respectively, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies (“Commissioner”) is authorized, by and at
the direction of the Board of Control, to sell certain parcels of the
Chagrin
Highlands
Development
Area described therein and consisting of 8.5 acres, and located in the
City of Beachwood (“Property”),
which parcels are no longer needed
for public use, according to the
terms of the Master Development
Agreement (“MDA”) set forth in the
ordinance; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under authority of Ordinance
No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989,
as amended by Ordinance No. 116696, passed June 9, 1997, respectively,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is directed to sell the
parcels comprising the Property,
and no longer needed for public use,
to Chagrin Highlands, LTD., according to the MDA and more fully
described as:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF A
27.95 ACRE PARCEL OF LAND
Situated in the City of Beachwood,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Warrensville Township Lot
No. 69, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a 3/4" iron pin monument found on the Easterly line of
said Original Lot No. 69, marking
the centerline intersection of Richmond Road (S.R. 175, width varies)
and Harvard Road (C.H. 43, width
varies) Said point also being a
Southeasterly corner of said Lot 69;
Thence
North
00°37'25"
West,
along said centerline of Richmond
Road, a distance of 127.66 feet to an
angle point;
Thence South 89°22'35" West, perpendicular to said centerline of
Richmond Road, a distance of 57.00
feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin set with
cap, (P.S. 8243), a point beginning a
curve, and the Principal Place of
Beginning of the parcel intended to
be described herein;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Westerly Right-of-Way line of Richmond Road and the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, said curve
having a radius of 60.00 feet, a central angle of 90°19'15", a tangent of
60.34 feet, a chord of 85.09 feet
which bears South 44°32'15 West, a
distance of 94.58 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243),
and a point of tangency on Northerly Right-of-Way line of said Harvard Road;
Thence
South
89°41'55"
West,
along said Northerly Right-of-Way
line of Harvard Road, a distance of
177.77 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin set
with cap, (P.S. 8243), and a point of
curvature;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Northerly Right-of-Way line of Harvard Road and the arc of a curve

1613

deflecting to the left, said curve
having a radius of 5796.58 feet, a
central angle of 02°08'32", a tangent
of 108.38 feet, a chord of 216.73 feet
which bears South 88°37'40" West, a
distance of 216.74 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at
an angle point on the Easterly line
of land conveyed to City of Beachwood by deed recorded in AFN#
200506220432 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records;
Thence
North
00°35'01
West,
along said Easterly line of land conveyed to City of Beachwood, a distance of 555.06 feet to a 1/2 inch
iron pin found, 0.43 feet east and
0.08 feet south at an angle point;
South
89°24'59"
West,
Thence
along the Northerly line of land conveyed to City of Beachwood, a distance of 342.00 feet to a capped iron
pin found, 0.46 feet east at an angle
point;
Thence
South
00°35'01"
East,
along the Westerly line of land conveyed to City of Beachwood a distance of 39.31 feet to a 5/8 inch iron
pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at an
angle point;
Thence South 89°24'59" West, a
distance of 459.85 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at
an angle point;
Thence North 64°00'17" West, a
distance of 125.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243),
and the Easterly Right-of-Way line
of Eaton Boulevard (width varies);
Thence
North
25°59'43"
East,
along said Easterly Right-of-Way
line of Eaton Boulevard, a distance
of 573.45 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin
set with cap, (P.S. 8243), and a point
of curvature;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Easterly Right-of-Way line of Eaton
Boulevard and the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, said curve
having a radius of 535.00 feet, a central angle of 63°22'52", a tangent of
330.30 feet, a chord of 562.10 feet
which bears North 57°41'09" East, a
distance of 591.82 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243),
and a point of tangency;
North
89°22'35"
East,
Thence
along the Southerly Right-of-Way
line of Eaton Boulevard, a distance
of 603.83 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin
set with cap, (P.S. 8243), and a point
of curvature;
Thence Southeasterly along said
Southerly
Right-of-Way
line
of
Eaton Boulevard and the arc of a
curve deflecting to the right, said
curve having a radius of 30.00 feet,
a central angle of 90°00'00", a tangent of 30.00 feet, a chord of 42.43
feet which bears South 45°37'25"
East, a distance of 47.12 feet to a
5/8 inch iron pin set with cap, (P.S.
8243), and a point of tangency at
said Westerly Right-of-Way line of
Richmond Road;
Thence
South
00°37'25"
East,
along said Westerly Right-of-Way
line of Richmond Road, a distance
of 975.99 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin
set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at an angle
point;
West,
Thence
South
00°31'20"
along said Westerly Right-of-Way
line of Richmond Road, a distance
of 50.01 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin
set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at an angle
point;
Thence
South
00°37'25"
East,
along said Westerly Right-of-Way
line of Richmond Road, a distance
of 262.46 feet to the Principal Place

The City Record

24
of Beginning and containing 27.949
acres of land, more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
This description prepared by R.E.
Warner & Associates, Inc., Christopher J. Tomko, Professional Surveyor #8243 in August, 2013.
Capped iron pins set are 5/8" in
diameter with a yellow R.E. Warner PS 8243 plastic cap.
The total consideration to be paid
for
the
Property
shall
be
$2,355,760.15, determined as provided
by Section 4.2 of the MDA.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Mayor and the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are requested to execute and
deliver the official deed or deeds of
the City of Cleveland conveying the
Property including easements authorized in Resolution.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 588-13.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989, as amended by Ordinance No. 1166-96, passed June 9,
1997, respectively, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies (“Commissioner”) is authorized, by and at
the direction of the Board of Control, to sell certain parcels of the
Chagrin
Highlands
Development
Area described therein and consisting of 8.5 acres, and located in the
City of Beachwood (“Property”),
which parcels are no longer needed
for public use, according to the
terms of the Master Development
Agreement (“MDA”) set forth in the
ordinance; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under authority of Ordinance
No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989,
as amended by Ordinance No. 116696, passed June 9, 1997, respectively,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is directed to sell the
parcels comprising the Property,
and no longer needed for public use,
to Chagrin Highlands, LTD., according to the MDA and more fully
described as:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF A
8.5 ACRE PARCEL OF LAND
Situated in the City of Beachwood,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Warrensville Township Lot
No. 69, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a 3/4" iron pin monument found on the Easterly line of
said Original Lot No. 69, marking
the centerline intersection of Richmond Road (S.R. 175, width varies)
and Harvard Road (C.H. 43, width
varies) Said point also being a
Southeasterly corner of said Lot 69;
Thence
South
89°41'55"
West,
along said centerline of Harvard
Road, a distance of 295.49 feet to a
3/4 inch iron pin monument found,
0.08 feet east and 0.07 feet north,
and a point of curvature;

Thence Southwesterly along said
centerline of Harvard Road and the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left,
said curve having a radius of 5729.58
feet, a central angle of 03°35'17", a
tangent of 179.47 feet, a chord of
358.77
feet
which
bears
South
87°54'16" West, a distance of 358.82
feet to a 3/4 inch iron pin monument
found, 0.02 feet east and 0.03 feet
north at a point of tangency on said
centerline of Harvard Road;
Thence
South
86°06'38"
West,
along said centerline of Harvard
Road a distance of 200.06 feet to an
angle point;
Thence North 00°35'01" West, a
distance of 67.11 feet to the Northerly Right-of-Way line of Harvard
Road and a 5/8 inch iron pin set
with cap, (P.S. 8243), and the Principal Place of Beginning of the parcel intended to be described herein;
Thence
South
86°06'38"
West,
along said Northerly Right-of-Way
line of Harvard Road, a distance of
137.44 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin set
with cap, (P.S. 8243), at an angle
point;
West,
Thence
South
87°20'52"
along said Northerly Right-of-Way
line of Harvard Road, a distance of
245.57 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin set
with cap, (P.S. 8243), to a point of
curvature;
Thence Northwesterly along said
Northerly Right-of-Way line of Harvard Road and the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, said curve
having a radius of 1842.86 feet, a
central angle of 08°53'46", a tangent
of 143.36 feet, a chord of 285.85 feet
which bears North 85°41'33" West, a
distance of 286.14 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), to
a
point
beginning
a
compound
curve;
Thence Northwesterly along said
Northerly Right-of-Way line of Harvard Road and the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, said curve
having a radius of 35.00 feet, a central angle of 80°21'37", a tangent of
29.56 feet, a chord of 45.16 feet
which bears North 41°02'28" West, a
distance of 49.09 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at
a point of tangency in the Easterly
Right-of-Way line of Eaton Boulevard (width varies);
Thence
North
00°05'75"
West,
along said Easterly Right-of-Way
line of Eaton Boulevard, a distance
of 141.50 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin
set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at a point
of curvature;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Easterly Right-of-Way line of Eaton
Boulevard and the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, said curve
having a radius of 635.00 feet, a central angle of 26°57'33", a tangent of
152.21 feet, a chord of 296.04 feet
which bears North 12°30'57" East, a
distance of 298.78 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at
a point of tangency on said Easterly Right-of-Way line of Eaton Boulevard (width varies);
North
25°59'43"
East,
Thence
along said Easterly Right-of-Way
line of Eaton Boulevard, a distance
of 131.73 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin
set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at an angle
point;
Thence South 64°00'17" East, a
distance of 125.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at
an angle point;
Thence North 89°24'59" East, a
distance of 459.85 feet to a 5/8 inch

1614

October 9, 2013
iron pin set with cap, (P.S. 8243), at
an angle point on the Westerly line
of land conveyed to City of Beachwood by deed recorded in AFN#
200506220432 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records;
Thence
South
00°35'01"
East,
along said Westerly line of land
conveyed to City of Beachwood, a
distance of 533.66 feet to the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 8.500 acres of land, more or
less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
This description prepared by R.E.
Warner & Associates, Inc., Christopher J. Tomko, Professional Surveyor #8243 in August, 2013.
Capped iron pins set are 5/8" in
diameter with a yellow R.E. Warner PS 8243 plastic cap.
The total consideration to be paid
for the Property shall be $716,420.79,
determined as provided by Section
4.2 of the MDA.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Mayor and the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are requested to execute and
deliver the official deed or deeds of
the City of Cleveland conveying the
Property including easements authorized in Resolution.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 589-13.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Panzica Construction,
for the public improvement of Third
District Police Station Phase II
Improvements, for Base Bid Items AF, Alternate Items AA5 and AA9
and Optional Item 5 for the Division
of Architecture and Site Development, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects received on July 12, 2013, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 124112, passed on September 17, 2012,
upon a gross price basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $16,817,000.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Panzica Construction for the aforementioned public improvement is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

Contemporary
(non-certified)

Miles Mechanical
(CSB/MBE)

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

$2,940,000.00
17.482%

$2,725,000.00
16.204%

CMC Kilroy (non-certified)
$1,450,000.00
8.622%
Prestige (non-certified) $1,132,000.00
6.731%

The City Record

October 9, 2013
Chieftain Trucking
(CSB/FBE)

Phoenix Cement
(non-certified)

$ 599,500.00
3.565%

$ 510,000.00
3.033%

Safeguard Assoc.
(CSB/MBE)

Valentine Masonry
(non-certified)

United Mechanical
(non-certified)

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.

$ 429,500.00
2.554%

ROBERT BENNETT,
President

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2013
10/11/13 – 10/17/13

Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.

$ 312,000.00
1.855%

Leff Electric (CSB/FBE)$ 217,000.00
1.290%

Nagele Manufacturing
(non-certified)

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________

$ 321,850.00
1.914%

Fox Fire (non-certified) $ 251,000.00
1.492%

Cunningham Paving
(CSB)

sion has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

$ 460,000.00
2.735%

VIP Restoration (CSB) $ 418,000.00
2.486%
Frank Novak & Sons
(CSB/FBE)

25

$ 215,000.00
1.278%

$ 213,000.00
1.267%

Announ- Exam Classi- Exam
cement Method fication
No.

Type

Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).

102 WR

Accountant I

Open

Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).

103 WR

Accountant II

Open

Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

104 WR

Accountant III

Open

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).

105 EE

Airport
Comptroller

N/C

The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:

106 EE

Assistant Plan
Examiner

Open

Automobile
Repair Worker

Open

(e.g.:

furniture,

Library cards.
Voter registration cards.

107 WR

Royal Landscape
(CSB/FBE)

$ 185,858.00
1.105%
108 WR

Tycor Roofing
(non-certified)

$ 172,000.00
1.023%

J. C. Sharp Corp.
(CSB/FBE)

$

95,853.00
0.570%

Open

General Manager
Of Administrative
Services
N/C

Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commis-

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 102

112 EE

Guard

Open

ACCOUNTANT I (OPEN)

113 WR

Junior Cashier

Open

114 EE

Rehabilitation
Inspector

Open

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

115 EE

Senior Assistant
City Planner
N/C

116 EE

Senior Tax
Auditor

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

Social Security card.

110 WR/OR Emt Supervisor Promo

LEWIS DOLEZAL
Acting Secretary

____________

Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.

109 WR/TY Customer Service
Representative Open

111 EE
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Bender, Smith, Cox, Acting
Directors Cross, Withers, Directors
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Cable Splicer
Helper

117 WR

Open

Parking Meter
Service Worker Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:

1615

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.39 - $20.20 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013

The City Record

26
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direct supervision, performs
accounting functions in the preparation of financial statements, accounting records, and documents in accordance with established accounting
systems. May be required to supervise
Accountant Clerks. Performs related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Accounting or related field from an
accredited college or university is
required. Must be able to operate a ten
key calculator and be proficient in
various software programs (Substitution: Two years of accounting experience may substitute for each year of
college education lacking.) Must be
able to lift and carry at least 30
pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 103

October 9, 2013
Finance, Business Administration or
related field from an accredited four
year college or university is required.
(Substitution: Two years of accounting experience may be substituted for
each year of education lacking.) Must
have a working knowledge of various
software packages.

ACCOUNTANT II (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.88 - $22.17 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 104
ACCOUNTANT III (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.48 - $24.58 per hour.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

FILING OF APPLICATION

Under direct supervision, performs
accounting functions in the preparation of financial systems. Analyzes
and reports financial data. May be
required to instruct and/or supervise
Accountant
I’s
and
Accountant
Clerks. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have

A High School Diploma or GED from
an accredited institution is required.
A Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting,

TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.

1616

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

October 9, 2013
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, is responsible for performing accounting functions in accordance with established
accounting systems. Analyzes reports
and data and advises in the procedures of accounting and the preparation of financial data. May be
required to instruct and/or supervise
Accountants I’s & II’s and Accountant
Clerks. Performs related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED from
an accredited institution is required.
A Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting,
Finance, or Business Administration
from an accredited four year college
or university is required. (Substitution: Two years of accounting experience may be substituted for each year
of education lacking.) Must have at
least two (2) years of full time paid
accounting experience. Must have a
working knowledge of various software packages.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

The City Record

27

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 105
AIRPORT
COMP)

COMPTROLLER

(NON-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,214.95 to $112,526.46 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

and other statistical reports. Develops and implements policies, procedures, standards, and systems for the
airport’s operational areas and monitors performance to ensure effectiveness and efficiency of programs. Initiates and participates in special studies of accounting systems, practices,
and procedures. Performs professional accounting work of unusual difficulty. Monitors revenue estimates
against collections as well as expenditures against appropriations to
identify the need for more in-depth
analyses. Establishes internal controls to ensure fiscal accuracy.
Reviews and approves draft revenue
and expenditure reports. Takes an
active role in the Department’s annual budget preparation. Manages special projects. Oversees the preparation of the annual internal audit plan
and monitors staff performance with
that plan. Develops financial indicators for the department and tracks
progress against those indices. Monitors cash flow of funds and provides
recommendations of funding sources
for new and existing capital projects.
Performs other job-relate duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting or related field from an
accredited four year college or university is required, a Master’s Degree
in Business Administration or related
field is preferred. Two years of fulltime paid supervisory experience in
the governmental accounting or
auditing field is required. Demonstrated effective leadership skills
required. Proficient oral, presentation, and written communication
skills including proposals, financial
documents, reports, and business correspondence are required. Proficient
analytical and problem-solving skills
required. Must be able to lift and
carry 30 pounds. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Credential as a Certified Public Accountant
is preferred. Proficient project-management skills preferred.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Under general direction, plans, organizes, directs, monitors, and evaluates the financial accounting work of
professional accountants, paraprofessional technicians, and clerical staff
performing
tasks
in
accounts
payable, voucher issuance, accounts
receivable, revenue accounting, general
ledger
maintenance,
grant
administration, capital asset tracking, auditing, procurement, and daily
cash management. Oversees and
supervises the production of management reports, financial statements,

1617

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

The City Record

28
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 106
ASSISTANT
(OPEN)

PLAN

EXAMINER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $16.29 - $23.32 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, assists
the Plan Examiner. Assists in the
examination of applications for building permits and plans for proposed
structures. Insures compliance with
zoning requirements and the requirements of laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations. Assists in the issuance of
building permits. Performs related
duties as required. TYPICAL TASKS:
Checks building applications for conformity to zoning requirements, fire
district requirements, building code
requirements, and for conformity
with the laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations. Affixes signature of
approval on building permits. Calculates charges for permits. Answers
questions regarding building permits. Prepares reports concerning
investigations and other matters.
Checks complaints. Checks engineering and construction details on plans
for proposed structures. Answers telephone. Keeps records. Follows all
operations and safety policies and

safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience Reading and Understanding Construction Drawing, Zoning
Maps, and Related Codes is required.
Must be able to lift and carry 30
pounds. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 107
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR WORKER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $12.60 - $21.18 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SER-

1618

October 9, 2013
VICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, inspects, repairs,
adjusts, and services automobiles,
trucks, and other motorized equipment. Makes minor repairs and
adjustments to secondary units. Performs related duties as required.
TYPICAL TASKS: Overhauls and
repairs motors and electrical equipment of automobiles and trucks.
Checks and repairs automobile and
truck bodies and fenders. Repairs air
compressors, concrete mixers, and
mobile pumping equipment. Adjusts
brake mechanisms of automobiles
and trucks. Resets and repairs ignition
systems
and
carburetors.
Inspects and services batteries. Drives tow car. Welds in the repair of
automotive
equipment.
Operates
equipment. Operates machines and
equipment in making automobile
repairs. Services automobiles and
trucks. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required, a diploma from a High
School or Trade School specializing in
Automotive Repair is preferred. Two
years of full time paid experience in
Automotive Repair is required. Must
possess the required tools to perform
the duties of the job. Must be able to
lift and carry a minimum of 50
pounds. A valid state of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examina-

October 9, 2013
tion on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 108
CABLE SPLICER HELPER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $24.42 - $24.97 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.

The City Record
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

land, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $12.15 - $17.67 per hour.

Under immediate supervision and
instruction, assists a Cable Splicer in
the installation, maintenance, and
repair of electric transmission cables.
Performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must possess a valid Class
“A” Commercial Driver’s License.
Must be able to work overtime during
emergencies and for call outs. Must be
able to lift and carry 75 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 109

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CON-

29

CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleve-

1619

SALARY

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available
online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN/TYPING EXAMINATION
NOTE: CANDIDATES MUST PASS
BOTH PARTS OF THIS EXAM IN
ORDER TO BE PLACED ON THE
ELIGIBLE
LIST.
CANDIDATES
WILL NOT BE PERMITTED TO
TAKE THE SECOND PORTION OF
THE EXAM IF THEY DO NOT PASS
THE FIRST PORTION. THE TYPING PORTION OF THIS EXAM IS
PASS/FAIL
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists a high volume of utility customers concerning
inquiries, concerns, or complaints
regarding their accounts, equipment,
and services by walk-in or telephone
in accordance with established guidelines and procedures. Receives information regarding customer’s circumstances. Uses computer software and
hardware, reference manuals, federal/county/municipal
records,
intranet/internet sites, training sessions, etc. to investigate address,
branch, and meter information as
well as customer usage, account, and
bill payment history. Assesses resulting information to determine theft of
services or possible causes for high or
low meter readings. Calculates specific charges and makes billing adjustments as necessary. Evaluates customer eligibility for billing and service programs, bill extensions, and
extended payment arrangements and
determines if supervisory approval is
needed for such. Explains policies
and procedures as well as billing
process. Answers simple billing questions. Informs customers of possible
reasons for high or low bills and the
steps necessary to resolve problems.
Advises them of service programs and
special billings available. Completes
necessary forms, documents, or letters to establish new accounts, establish or terminate service, request
repairs, issue permits, and initiate
account adjustments. Enters informa-

30
tion into utility records. Processes
service requests and applications for
various permits. Refers customers to
appropriate offices or agencies. Follows up with customer if necessary.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows up with customer if
necessary. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

The City Record
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 110
EMT SUPERVISOR (PROMOTIONAL)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a Promotional examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,092.80 - $61,147.43 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in a call center with an
emphasis in customer service, billing,
and/or service complaints OR two
years of general customer service
experience in a high-volume business
environment is required. Experience
in a utility call center is preferred.
(Substitution: National Professional
Certification in Customer Service
may substitute for 6 months of experience lacking). Must possess basic
level knowledge of the internet and
MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook,
etc.) in a Windows-based environment. Must be able to type 25 words
per minute with 80% accuracy. The
ability to speak a second language is
preferred
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. Any applicant who can provide proof of unemployment, public
assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST This test
will comprise 40% of the applicant’s
final grade. ORAL TEST This test
will comprise 60% of the applicant’s
final grade.
NOTE: Applicants will be notified of
the time, date, and place of the exams
as well as a list of reference materials
by mail, departmental notice, or via
contact information provided.

October 9, 2013
pates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must have two years prior
experience as a City of Cleveland
functioning Paramedic. Basic computer proficiency in the areas of word
processing and spreadsheet applications desired but not required. Must
have strong written and verbal communication skills. Must possess
strong problem-solving skills, i.e.;
effective communication, negotiation, independent thinking. Must be
able to adapt readily to a wide variety
of environmental conditions. Must be
a Regular Emergency Medical Technician with the City of Cleveland.
Must have a valid State of Ohio Driver’s License. Firefighter II certification is preferred, not required.
NOTE: In compliance with the Charter of the City of Cleveland, “A resident of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year from the date of filing
of an application for a promotional
civil
service
examination,
who
receives a passing grade on that promotional examination, shall have
added to his or her raw score five (5)
points.” A list of acceptable forms of
proof of residency applicants need to
present at the time of filing is included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: Seniority will be computed as
of October 17, 2013.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 111
GENERAL MGR OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
SALARY
Provides front-line management for
the Cleveland Emergency Medical
Service. Manages and facilitates field
and communication center operation
by directing, controlling, monitoring,
and evaluating all the activity of a
specific shift. Works in a wide variety of environmental conditions and
is frequently called to supervise crisis
situations. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and partici-

1620

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $26,273.96 to $91,155.72 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.

October 9, 2013
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER
17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013.

The City Record
(Substitution: Two years of experience may substitute for each year of
college education lacking.)
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 112
GUARD (OPEN)

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $17.39 per hour.

NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction , oversees the activities performed within
an administrative section of a City
department. Monitors the administration of personnel, payroll, departmental policy manual revision, and budget activities. Attends second-step
employee grievance meetings and
prepares departmental responses to
grievances. Represents Department
at labor relations and personnel
administration meetings. Monitors
the departmental budget, accident
and safety record, and payroll. Provides interpretations of departmental
labor contracts, policies, applicable
Civil Service Rules, and personnel
manual. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business/Public Administration, Human
Resources, or closely related field
from an accredited four year college
or university is required. Three years
of full time paid experience in Personnel Administration is required.

SALARY

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

31
reports. Ensures all security incidents are addressed promptly and
efficiently. Communicates security
matters with appropriate authorities.
Utilizes electronic communications
equipment. Enforces regulations.
Interacts with and provides direction
for members of the public. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Ohio Peace Officer
Training Certificate is required. (Substitution: Two years of full time paid
experience in Security work may be
substituted for certificate.) Must be
computer proficient. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, patrols
and guards government-owned property. Monitors the facility security
system. Assesses security alarms and
breaches and determines and activates the appropriate response. Documents security incidents, violations,
and suspicious behaviors. Prepares

1621

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 113
JUNIOR CASHIER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

The City Record

32
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $11.14 - $16.97 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, receives funds in
payment of bills due and issues
receipts for same. Disburses funds
upon proper authorization. Keeps a
record of all money collected and disbursed. Balance accounts. Performs
related duties as required. TYPICAL
TASKS: Receives payments and
deposits from consumers. Receives
payments
from
bill
collectors.
Receives job deposits. Makes settlements of monies received. Prepares
daily and periodic reports in connection with the handling of monies. Collects receipts. Makes refunds when
properly authorized. Pays out petty
cash. Deposits with City Treasurer
warrants for money received. Prepares lists of refunds and deposits.
Prepares warrants. Balances daily
cash. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

be proficient in the use of a computer
as well as a 10-key adding machine
and/or calculator and possess strong
math skills.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 114
REHABILITATION
(OPEN)

INSPECTOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $17.69 - $27.37 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
cashier experience is required. Must

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013

1622

October 9, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Develops and/or reviews specifications for 1 to 4-family residential
dwellings for the purpose of rehabilitation which includes energy conservation measures and lead hazard
reduction methods. Inspects contractor works-in-progress to ensure projects under construction are adhering
to the General Specification Manual
as well as applicable laws, specifically including the Housing Code of the
City of Cleveland, ordinances, rules,
and regulations relating to location,
design, construction, and maintenance. Performs tests and or takes
samples to determine if lead reduction and energy conservation measures are within acceptable parameters to ensure the work was performed to standard. Assesses the feasibility of building and premises for
inclusion in available programs and
assures project specifications and
construction are completed at a level
to satisfy program guidelines. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam.) Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Construction Management or related
field from an accredited college or
university is required. Three years of
full time paid experience in building
or remodeling, contracting, building
construction, estimation, or inspection is required. (Substitution: One
year of experience may substitute for
each year of college education lacking.) Must be State certified as a Lead
Risk Assessor or State certified as a
Home Weatherization Assistance
Inspector. Must maintain continuing
education requirements for the State
certification. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must
own or have access to a properly registered and insured motor vehicle.
Must be able to understand the
requirements of the Housing Code of
the City of Cleveland.

October 9, 2013
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 115
SENIOR ASSISTANT CITY PLANNER (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 to $24.59 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2013 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER
17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

The City Record
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in the
preparation of planning studies,
development analyses, data analyses,
market studies, and maps. Assists in
reviewing the design and layout of
development projects including conformance with zoning, design, and
planning standards. Performs related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Urban Planning, Architecture, Public
Administration, or related field from
a four year accredited college or university is required. One year of full
time paid experience in Urban Planning, Architecture, or closely related
field is required. (Substitution: One
year of post-graduate education in
Urban Planning or related field may
substitute for the experience.)
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 116
SENIOR TAX AUDITOR (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,092.80 - $48,837.68 per year.

1623

33
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative supervision,
audits and examines various municipal income tax accounts from individuals, businesses, and employers and
recommends areas for targeted compliance programs or in-depth audits.
Supervises tax auditors as assigned
to assure accuracy and validity of
work product. Assigns, performs,
summarizes,
and
communicates
results of tax investigations. Makes
recommendations for appropriate
action based upon results of investigations. Uses special secure and confidential databases. Conducts the
more complex compliance programs
and audits. Reconciles tax issues
related to special revenue districts
(e.g.: income tax revenue sharing districts, joint economic development
district/zones) and insures accuracy
of same via appropriate audit and
compliance programs. Represents
Central Collection Agency (CCA)
regarding tax matters in court and at
Board of Review hearings. Offers testimony under oath in regards to taxpayer appeals at these forums based
upon in-depth knowledge of specific
tax issues and prepares supporting
documentation for same. Attends
meetings with municipal officials in
member communities and makes presentations as required. Designs and
participates in targeted taxpayer
assistance and compliance programs.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and

The City Record

34
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting,
Finance,
Business
Administration, or Public Administration is required, a Master’s Degree in
one of these fields is preferred. Two
years full-time paid experience in
preparation and auditing of income
taxes is required. (Substitution: Two
years of related experience may be
substituted for each year of college
lacking, up to two years) Must be
computer proficient and have experience with Income tax software,
Microsoft Office Suite, and the Internet. A CPA is preferred as is excellent
oral and written communication
skills and the ability to maintain the
highest level of confidentiality. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required (Or if current license is from
out-of-state, must be obtained within
one month of the date of hire.)
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 117
PARKING
METER
WORKER (OPEN)

SERVICE

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $16.49 - $17.19 per hour.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11,
2013 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 2013.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

October 9, 2013
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
October 9, 2013
Makes inspections, repairs, adjustments, and replacements of parking
meters and appurtenances, both in the
shop and on the streets. Makes all necessary working schedules and work
orders and tabulates parking survey
data. Erects necessary parking signs
and lays out parking meter spaces.
Does such other work in connection
with parking meter maintenance as
may be required of him/her. Follows
all operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Six months of full time paid
experience
in
repairing
small
mechanical equipment is required. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be good with tools and
able to lift and carry 50 pounds and
walk two miles per day. Knowledge
of parking meter operations is preferred, but not required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum

1624

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2013
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 13-204: 2216 West 101st
Street (Ward 16)
Irina and Gheoghe Ciornei, owners, and Vasile Balescu, tenant,
appeal to establish use as a state
licensed residential facility, providing accommodations and personal
care services for eleven (11) persons
in a two-family dwelling located on
a 40’ x 125.46’ parcel in a B1 TwoFamily District; subject to the limitations in Section 337.03 the proposed use is not permitted and is
first permitted in a Multi-Family
District, pursuant to Cleveland Zoning Code Section 337.08 and Ohio
Revised Code 5119.22(E)(2).
Calendar No. 13-214: 3506 Clark
Avenue (Ward 14)
Serrat Enterprises, owner, and
Checkers
Drive-In
Restaurants,
prospective tenant, appeal to construct a drive-through restaurant
with a dining patio on a 134.33’ x
179.78’ parcel in a C2 General Retail
Business District; subject to the provisions of Section 343.18(c) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordnances a driveway must be at least 15 feet from
property lines.
Calendar
No.
13-216:
2163
West
Boulevard (Ward 16)
Cuyahoga
County
Land
Bank,
owner, and Jason Brooks, prospective purchaser, appeal to erect an

The City Record

October 9, 2013
open, wooden front porch to a one
family dwelling located on a 50' x
150' parcel in a B1 Two-Family District; proposing 9 feet 8 inches
where an open porch shall not project more than 6 feet according to
Section 357.13(b)(4) in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-217: 7005 Clement
Avenue (Ward 12)
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity,
Incorporated,
owner,
appeals to erect a 13'-5" x 18'-2"
two-story rear room addition to a
one family dwelling on a 35' x 115'
parcel in a B1 Two-Family District;
proposing zero feet where a minimum interior side yard of 3 feet is
required
according
to
Section
357.09(2)B
and
the
expansion,
enlargement, of a nonconforming
use, building, requires the Board of
Zoning Appeals approval, pursuant
to Section 359.01(a) in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-218: 12710 Miles
Avenue (Ward 2)
Badran, LLC, owner, appeals to
establish use as a used car dealership and motor vehicle minor repair
garage on parcels located in a B1
Two-Family District; a use not permitted by the limitations in Section
343.11 and permitted in a General
Retail Business District in accordance with provisions in Section
343.14; and a use of building or land
lawfully existing on the effective
date of the Zoning Code or of any
amendment or supplement thereto or
from which a permit has been lawfully issued may be continued, but
no enlargement or expansion shall
be permitted except as a variance
under the terms of Chapter 329 and
no substitution or other change in
such nonconforming use shall be
permitted except by special permit
from the Board of Zoning Appeals,
and such permit may be issued only
if the Board determines, after public hearing that such use is no more
harmful or objectionable than the
previous nonconforming use in floor
or other space occupied, in volume
of trade or production, in kind of
goods sold or produced, in daily
hours or other period of use, in type
or number of persons to occupy or
be attracted to the premises, or in
any other characteristic of the new
use as compared with the previous
use pursuant to Section 359.01(a) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 13-220: 1417 East 25th
Street (Ward 3)
Cement Masons Local 404, owner,
appeal to install approximately 202
linear feet of 6 feet high chain link
fence in actual front and side street
yards on a 149.97' x 263.99' parcel
in a C1 Multi-Family District; subject to the limitations in Section
358.04(a) such fences shall not
exceed a height of 4 feet and be
ornamental and a least 50 percent
open; a chain link fence 6 feet high
is proposed in the actual side front
yard along East 26th Street, contrary to the Fence Regulations in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

35

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
7, 2013, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-191: 1404-06 West
29th Street
Striebinger Block, LLC, owner,
and 1404 West 29th Street, LLC, tenant, appealed to change use from a
store to a restaurant and bar in a
D2 Semi-Industry District; subject to
condition.
Calendar No. 13-201: 1561 East 118th
Street
University Place LP aka Bluewater Capitol, appealed to erect 19
townhouses in a C1 General Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 13-205: 5201 Northcliff
Avenue
Dwight and Gayle Lee, appealed
to erect a one-story gable garage in
a B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 13-140: 3006 Franklin
Boulevard
Wael Ayyad, appealed to erect a
two-story bedroom addition to an
existing residence in split zoning
between B1 Two-Family and D2 Residence Industry Districts.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

appeals

were

Calendar No. 13-196: 11133 Buckeye
Road
St. Mark Baptist Church, owner,
and the Cleveland Clinic, lessee,
appealed to construct a parking lot
in a C2 Residence-Office District.
Calendar No. 13-197: 11205 Buckeye
Road
St. Mark Baptist Church, owner,
and the Cleveland Clinic, lessee,
appealed to construct a parking lot
in a C2 Residence Office District.
Calendar No. 13-69: 4069 East 116th
Street
Number One Grace Property LLC
appealed for a change of use from
factory to wrecking or dismantling
of motor vehicles and sales of auto
parts in a B3 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 13-98: 2087 West 10th
Street
Deane Malaker appealed to erect
a one-story, triangular shaped, single family dwelling in a B1 MultiFamily District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

Calendar No. 13-144: 1089 West 3rd
Street
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority appealed for a 58'4" x
20'2" billboard sign located in B2
General Industry and Business Revitalization Districts.
Calendar No. 13-145: 1180 West 9th
Street
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority appealed for a 22'6" x
20'5" billboard sign located in a G5
General Retail Business and Business Revitalization Districts.
appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None
The following appeal was POSTPONED
Calendar No. 13-139: 2843 Franklin
Boulevard postponed to November
18, 2013.

1625

The
following
APPROVED:

were

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 13-203: 3478 West 88th
Street
Samuel Velez appealed from a
decision of the City of Cleveland
Parking Violations Bureau, Waste
Collection and Photo Safety Division.

The
following
WITHDRAWN:

The following appeals heard by
the Board on September 30, 2013
were adopted and approved on October 7, 2013.

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.

The City Record

36
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2013
File No. 166-13 — Uniform Clothing
Supplies 2014, for the Division of
Police,
Department
of
Public
Safety, as authorized by Section
135.06 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2013
AT
1:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
POLICE HEADQUARTERS, 1300
ONTARIO
STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
File No. 167-13 — Ballistic Vests and
Carriers, for the Division of
Police,
Department
of
Public
Safety, as authorized by Section
135.06 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2013
AT
1:30
P.M.
CLEVELAND
POLICE
HEADQUARTERS,
ROOM
731,
1300
ONTARIO
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44113.
October 2, 2013 and October 9, 2013

AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
A Site Visit is Scheduled for 1:00
p.m. on Thursday, October 17,
2013.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the of
fice of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.

THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2013
AT 10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
*Bidders must purchases plans and
specifications directly from the of
fice of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.

October 9, 2013 and October 16, 2013

October 9, 2013 and October 16, 2013

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2013

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2013

File No. 172-13 — Purchase the Necessary Items of Federal Aviation
Administration Approved Deicing
Chemicals for the Various Divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for the Various Divisions
of Port Control, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 750-13, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 14, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2013 AT 10:00
A.M. THE CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S RECEIVING BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.

File No. 168-13 — Fluorosilicic Acid,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
AVENUE,
CLEVELAKESIDE
LAND, OHIO 44114.

October 9, 2013 and October 16, 2013

October 9, 2013 and October 16, 2013

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2013
File No. 171-13 — Remanufactured
Transmissions and Repairs, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Section 131.64 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2013 AT 10:00
A.M. MOTOR VEHICLE MAIN49TH
TENANCE,
4150
EAST
STREET, BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2013
October 9, 2013 and October 16, 2013
File No. 169-13 — Treadway Creek
Trail Improvements, for the Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 607-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 7, 2010.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2013

October 9, 2013

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2013
File No. 170-13 — Rehabilitating and
Repairing
Sewer
Connections
Various Locations, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.292 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).

1626

Res. No. 1346-13.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New D3A Liquor Permit at
6966 Broadway Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Unit 1.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
D3A Liquor Permit at Alliance
Event Center, LLC, DBA Alliance
Event
Center,
6966
Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Unit
1, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 01377680005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with

October 9, 2013
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at Alliance Event Center, LLC, DBA Alliance Event Center,
6966 Broadway Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Unit 1, Cleveland, Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
01377680005; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Res. No. 1347-13.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 2701 Chester
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from Lehigh Gas Ohio, LLC,
DBA BP AM PM, 2701 Chester
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 50989840270 to A J
D Gas, LLC, DBA BP AM PM, 2701
Chester Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 0003681;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health

The City Record
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Lehigh Gas Ohio, LLC, DBA BP AM
PM, 2701 Chester Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
50989840270 to A J D Gas, LLC, DBA
BP AM PM, 2701 Chester Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 0003681; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Res. No. 1348-13.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 10202
Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Lehigh Gas
Ohio, LLC, DBA BP AM PM, 10202
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
50989840180 to Low Cost Gas, Inc.,
DBA BP AM PM, 10202 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 53176420005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor

1627

37
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Lehigh Gas Ohio, LLC, DBA
BP AM PM, 10202 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 50989840180 to Low Cost Gas,
Inc., DBA BP AM PM, 10202 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 53176420005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Res. No. 1349-13.
by Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 14008 Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the

38
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from Lehigh Gas Ohio, LLC,
DBA BP AM PM, 14008 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 50989840275 to Low
Cost Gas, Inc., DBA BP AM PM,
14008
Lorain Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
5317642; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Lehigh Gas Ohio, LLC, DBA BP AM
PM, 14008 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
50989840275 to Low Cost Gas, Inc.,
DBA BP AM PM, 14008 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 5317642; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

The City Record
Res. No. 1350-13.
By Council Members Conwell, J.
Johnson, Cimperman, Keane, Zone,
Mitchell, Cleveland, Kelley, Cummins, Brancatelli, Westbrook, Dow
and Brady.
An emergency resolution calling
upon the Ohio Legislature to include
sexual orientation and disability as
classifications under Revised Code
Section 2927.12, ethnic intimidation.
Whereas,
under
Ohio’s
ethnic
intimidation statute, Section 2927.12
of Revised Code, someone who commits a crime against another based
on the victim’s race, color, religion
or national origin will be charged
with an offense of the next higher
degree, and
Whereas, the Ohio ethnic intimidation statute does not include “sexual orientation” or “disability” as
classifications for which someone
committing a hate crime may be
charged for an offense of the next
higher degree; and
Whereas, hate crimes against the
disabled and members of the lesbian, gay, bi-sexual and transgender
communities occur with frightening
frequency in Ohio; and
Whereas, most recently here in
Cleveland, violence was committed
on two separate occasions in front
of the same bar noted for its gay
clientele; and
Whereas,
although
the
City
includes sexual orientation and disability in its ethnic intimidation
statute, the highest degree that a
violator can be charged is a first
degree misdemeanor; and
Whereas, the state should help to
protect the disabled and the LGBT
community and recognize that the
continuing violence against the disabled and the LGBT community are
hate crimes; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
calls upon the Ohio Legislature to
include sexual orientation and disability
as
classifications
under
Revised Code Section 2927.12, ethnic
intimidation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to Governor John
Kasich and all members of the Ohio
General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Res. No. 1351-13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution urging
the State of Ohio to use Issue 1
funds to repair the East 152nd Street
bridge over the Conrail yard in
Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, Issue 1 funds are being
used to repair and rehabilitate roads

1628

October 9, 2013
in bridges in the state of Ohio,
including in the Greater Cleveland
area; and
Whereas, the bridge located at
East 152nd Street, over the Conrail
yard in Cleveland, Ohio is in desperate need of repair; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the State of Ohio to use Issue 1 funds
to repair the East 152nd Street bridge
over the Conrail yard in Cleveland,
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to the Ohio Public Works
Commission.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Res. No. 1352- 13.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution urging
the
Ohio
General
Assembly
to
increase the penalties for violation
of Revised Code Sections 2907.23,
2907.24 and 2907.25, regarding enticement, solicitation and prostitution.
Whereas, Revised Code Sections
2907.23, 2907.24 and 2907.25 make it
illegal to entice or solicit another to
patronize a prostitute or brothel; to
solicit another to engage with that
person in sexual activity for hire;
and to engage in prostitution; and
Whereas, this type of activity is a
scourge on our society and runs
rampant in our poorer, inner city
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, currently, a violation of
section 2907.23, enticement or solicitation to patronize a prostitute is a
misdemeanor of the first degree; violation of section 2907.24 solicitation
or section 2907.25, prostitution, is a
misdemeanor of the third degree;
and
Whereas, this type of activity
should be discouraged by increasing
the penalties for violations of these
laws; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the
Ohio
General
Assembly
to
increase the penalties for violation of
Revised Code Sections 2907.23, 2907.24
and 2907.25, regarding enticement,
solicitation and prostitution.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution each member of the Ohio
General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

October 9, 2013
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Res. No. 1355-13.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 55
Public Square, 1st floor, basement and
patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D6 Liquor Permit from West
Third Restaurant, Corp., DBA John
Q’s Steakhouse John QA Express, 55
Public Square, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 9554974 to Legndary GCE Group, LLC, 55 Public
Square, 1st floor, basement and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 50966040010; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,

39
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit from West Third
Restaurant, Corp., DBA John Q’s
Steakhouse John QA Express, 55 Public Square, 1st floor, basement and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 9554974 to Legndary
GCE Group, LLC, 55 Public Square, 1st
floor, basement and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
50966040010; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 408-12.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the north and south sides of Madison
Avenue between W. 98 Street and W. 85 Street to Urban Garden District, Two Family, Multi-Family, Residence Office,
Local Retail or General Retail, a ‘B’ or ‘C’ Area District and a 1 or a 2 Height District as identified on the attached
map(Map Change No. 2391, Sheet Number 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 96th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Christie Richards by deed dated May 5, 2003 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 200305060238, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 00129-025;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Danny E. Lewis by deed dated August 1st,
2003 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200308010559, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 001-29-078;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of West 96th Street and the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map is changed to an Urban Garden District, and a 1 Height District.
Section 2. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of West 98th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 98 Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot No. 22 in the G.W. Fackler & S.W. Johnson Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 8, Page 25
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the aforementioned G.W. Fackler & S.W. Johnson Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 1 in the E.F. Davis Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 7, Page 8 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along the southerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of
Stanhope Avenue;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
West 91st Street;

1629

40

The City Record

October 9, 2013

Thence northerly along said centerline of West 91st Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 93rd Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly
line of Sublot No. 3 in the William J. White Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 14, Page 26 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 98th Street and
the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a 1 Height
District.
Section 3. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation centerline of West
89 Street;
Thence northerly along said prolongation of said centerline to its in with the easterly prolongation of the northerly
line of Sublot No. 13 in the Eleanor H. Seymour Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 29, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of West 90th Street;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot No. 6 in the G.W. Fackler & S.W. Johnson Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 8,
Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the aforementioned G.W. Fackler & S.W Johnson Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 89th Street and the principal place of beginning.
and shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘C’ Area District and a 2 Height District.
Section 4. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of West 98th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 98th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 9 in the F.R. Elliot Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 3 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with a line drawn approximately 30 feet southerly of and
parallel to the aforementioned northerly line of Sublot No. 9 in the F.R. Elliot Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of W. 96th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 96th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Christie Richards by deed dated May 5, 2003 recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200305060238, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-29-025;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Danny E. Lewis by deed dated August 1, 2003 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200308010559, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel
Number 001-29-078;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of West
93rd Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 7 in the William J. White Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 14,
Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
the aforementioned William J. White Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 12 in the aforementioned William J. White Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly
line of the aforementioned William J. White Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot No. 27 in the aforementioned William J. White Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of Sublot No. 1 in the aforementioned
William J. White Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 2 in the aforementioned William J. White Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
West 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Madison Avenue;

1630

October 9, 2013

The City Record

41

Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 5 in the Taylor Park Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 38, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Conover Court;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Conover Court and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of West 89th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 89th Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of W 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 62 in the E.F. Davis Allotment in Volume 7, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly lien and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 68 in the aforementioned E.F. Davis Allotment;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly lien and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 70 in the aforementioned E. F. Davis Allotment;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 95th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 98th Street
and the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Residence Office District, a ‘C’ Area District and a 2 Height District.
Section 5. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 96th Street;
Thence northerly a long said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot number 8 in the F. R. Elliott Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 2
page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly a long said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with a line drawn 39ft.
easterly of and parallel to the easterly line of West 96th Street;
Thence southerly a long said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly a long said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 93 Street;
Thence northerly a long said southerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with a line drawn 35ft.
southerly of and parallel to the southerly line of Sublot No. 8 in the William J. Wright subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 14 page 26 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with the westerly line of the Margaret T. Ranney subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 24 page 23 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the main line of the New York, Chicago and Saint
Louis Railroad;
Thence easterly a long said main line to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of the
Eleanor H. Seymour subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 29 page 25 of Cuyahoga County map records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly a long said centerline and Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 85th Street;
Thence southerly a long said centerline of West 85th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
centerline of Conover Court;
Thence westerly a long said prolongation of said centerline through its intersection with the centerline of West 87
Street to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot number 4 in the Taylor Park Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 38 page 29 of the Cuyahoga County map records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said centerline and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline a Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly a long said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 89th Street;
Thence southerly a long said northerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot number 1 in the Lucas Fischer subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 39
page 27 of Cuyahoga County map records ;
Thence westerly a long said easterly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
Sublot No. 3 in the Jacob Stahl and P.J. Platten subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 5 page 65 of Cuyahoga
County map records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly a long said southerly line and a long its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 91st Street
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 91st Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 95th Street;
Thence southerly a long said centerline of West 95th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Stanhope Avenue;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line
of Sublot No. 10 in the G.W. Fackler and S.W Johnson Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 8, page 25 of
Cuyahoga County map records;

1631

The City Record

42

October 9, 2013

Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly line
of Sublot No. 6 in the aforementioned G. W. Fackler and S. W. Johnson subdivision;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly a long said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of W. 96th Street and the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business.
Section 6. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of W. 96th Street at its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of
Sublot No. 5 in the F.R. Elliot subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation to its intersection with a line drawn 50 feet westerly of and parallel to the westerly line of Sublot No. 6 in the aforementioned F.R. Elliot Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with a line drawn 50 feet southerly of and parallel to the
aforementioned southerly line of Sublot No. 5 in the F.R. Elliot Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of W. 96th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of W. 96th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly a long said centerline of Madison avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of the James F. Rhodes subdivision shown on the recorded plat in volume 15, page 2 of Cuyahoga County
map records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 50 in the
aforementioned James F. Rhodes subdivision;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and a long its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 85th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 85th Street and a long it southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline at Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of W. 96th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 96th Street to the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District and a ‘C’ Area District.
Section 7. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 5 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2391, Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this
purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 8. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 30, 2013.

1632

October 9, 2013
Ord. No. 702-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
ARCONAS Corporation for the purchase of labor and materials needed
to install power outlets and USB
ports, for the convenience of the
traveling public in order to recharge
phones, computer, and other electronic devices, including maintenance, repair, and inspection, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year,
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew, the second of which would
require
additional
legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
ARCONAS
Corporation.
Therefore
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to make one or more
written contracts with ARCONAS
Corporation on the basis of its proposal dated May 3, 2013, in the total
sum of $150,000, for labor and materials needed to install power outlets
and USB ports, for the convenience
of the traveling public in order to
recharge
phones,
computer,
and
other electronic devices, including
maintenance, repair, and inspection,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year,
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
If such additional legislative authority is granted and the second of the
one-year options to renew is exercised, then the third of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The contract or contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 106, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 114, 60 SF
115, 60SF 116, 60 SF 117, 60 SF 119,
60SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60 SF 126, 60 SF
128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160,
and from the fund or funds to which
are
credited
passenger
facility
charges if authorized for this purpose, and the fund or funds to which
are credited any grants received for
this purpose, Request No. RQS 3001,
RL 2013-101.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the

The City Record
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 754-13.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into lease agreements with
various companies for the use of certain Airport-owned space at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and Burke Lakefront Airport, for a
period of two years, with three oneyear options to renew, the third
to
renew
is
exercisable
option
additional
legislative
through
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into the following lease agreements
for general office space, each to be
located in the terminal building at
Burke Lakefront Airport (“Burke”),
for
the
following
approximate
square footage:
Evolution Construction Services,
LLC, 715 square feet
Lean Dog, Inc., 533 square feet
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into the
following lease agreements for flight
training, each to be located in the terminal building at Burke, for the following approximate square footage:
T & G Flying Club, Inc., 1,552
square feet
Bencin Aviation dba Precision Helicopter Services, 178 square feet
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with the International Women’s Air and Space Museum,
Inc., in the approximate amount of
1,724 square feet, for general office,
displays, and a gift shop in the terminal building at Burke. For use of the
leased
premises,
International
Women’s Air and Space Museum, Inc
shall pay the City an annual fee for
storage space $9,395.75 and for general office, displays and gift shop
$12,919.50 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with the Federal
Aviation Administration, in the
approximate amount of 3,391 square
feet, for operation of the air traffic
control tower in the terminal building
at Burke.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with Weather Forecast, Inc. of Ohio , for the use and
occupancy of approximately 266
square feet of office space for weather forecasting activities.
Section 6. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more lease agreements with United
States of America, acting through the
General Services Administration on
behalf of the Transportation Security

1633

43
Administration (“USA”) for baggage
and passenger screening and office
space at various locations in the terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (“Hopkins”), in
the following approximate square
footage:
378 square feet in Terminal Building A
1,157 square feet in Terminal Building B
1,058 square feet in Terminal Building B
770 square feet in the Main Terminal Building
1,974 square feet in the Main Terminal Building
599 square feet in the Main Terminal Building
Section 7. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with Flight Services
& Systems, Inc. for approximately 160
square feet of space located in the
Main Terminal Building at Hopkins,
to be used for office space.
Section 8. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with United Services
Organization,
Inc.
(“USO”)
for
approximately 1,129 square feet of
space located in the Main Terminal
Building at Hopkins, to be used for
office space. For use of the leased
premises, USO shall pay the City an
annual fee of $1.00 per year and other
valuable consideration, which is
determined to be fair market value.
Section 9. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with South Shore
Cable for approximately 2.05 acres
with 29,772 square feet of gross building and parking lot at 6400 Kolthoff
Road, to be used for general business
purpose and light industrial manufacturing use.
Section 10. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with Champlain
Enterprises, Inc. for approximately
24,270 square feet of hangar space
and 32,760 square feet of ramp area
located in Bay 3 of the Primary
Hangar at Hopkins, to be used for
operation of an aircraft hangar and
aircraft maintenance facility.
Section 11. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
lease agreement with the Federal
Aviation Administration for approximately 6,200 square feet of space
located at the FSS Building at 5301
West Hangar Road to be used for general office purposes.
Section 12. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Chapter 183, the
Director of Port Control may enter
into the lease agreements authorized
in this ordinance. The rent for each
lease shall be paid in monthly installments due on the first day of each
month during the term of each lease
or as otherwise provided in the lease
with the USO. Each lease may authorize the Lessee to make improvements to their leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate
City agencies and officials.
Section 13. That the term of each
lease authorized in this ordinance
shall be for a period of two years,
with three one-year options to renew.
The first and second one-year option
to renew may be exercisable at the
option of the Director Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council;
and the third option may not be exer-

44
cised without additional legislative
authority.
Section 14. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the Leases
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 15. The annual rent for
space in the terminal building at
Burke shall be based on fair market
value as determined by independent
third-party appraisals.

The City Record
Section 16. The annual rent for
space in all other outer buildings at
CLE and BKL shall be based on fair
market value as determined by independent third-party appraisals.
Section 17. The annual rent for
space in the terminal building at Hopkins shall be calculated annually in
accordance with the formula contained in the Master Agreement and
Lease, as amended, by and between
the City of Cleveland and the various
signatory airlines except as otherwise provided for the USO.

October 9, 2013
Section 18. That the leases authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 19. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 758-13.
By Council Members Westbrook and Brady.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the north and south sides of Madison
Avenue between Berea Rd. and W. 99 Street to: Two Family, Multi-Family and a ‘D’ Area District, Local Retail, a ‘C’ Area
and a ‘2’ Height District and Semi-Industry as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2433).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 106th Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot No. 201 in the Madison Park Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 23,
Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 005-18-014;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of Sublot No. 192 in the aforementioned Madison Park Allotment, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 005-18-021;
Thence westerly along said northerly line of Sublot No. 192 and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of W. 106th Street;
Thence northerly along said intersection of W. 106th Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Madison Avenue and the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map are changed to an Two Family Residential District.
Section 2. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
W. 100th St.;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 100th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 11 (PPN 001-29-014) in the Jacob Mueller Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
18, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said northerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W. 99th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 99th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Valen LLC by deed dated January 13, 2003 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number 200301131224, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-29-019;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
centerline of W. 99th Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 73 in the Jacob Mueller Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 18,
Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 005-23-138);
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 54 in the aforementioned Jacob Mueller Subdivision (PPN 005-23-075);
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation through its intersection with the centerline of W. 100th Street to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot No. 38 in the aforementioned Jacob Mueller
Subdivision (PPN 005-23-040);
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the principal place of beginning;
and as identified on the attached map are changed to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District.
Section 3. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 106th Street;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 187 in the Madison Park Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 23, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;

1634

October 9, 2013

The City Record

45

Thence easterly along said southerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 103rd Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 103rd Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot No. 207 in the West Boulevard Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 34, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with a line drawn 60
feet easterly of and parallel to the easterly line of Sublot No. 205 in the aforementioned West Boulevard Allotment;
Thence northerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of West 101 Street;
Thence southerly along said prolongation and said centerline of West 101 Street to its intersection with the westerly
prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the aforementioned West Boulevard Allotment;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot No. 26 in the Jacob Mueller Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 18, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said prolongation and said northerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot
No. 36 in the aforementioned Jacob Mueller Subdivision;
Thence westerly, southerly and northerly along said northerly line and northwesterly to its intersection with the
northeasterly line of Sublot No. 37 in the aforementioned Jacob Mueller Subdivision;
Thence northwesterly along said northeasterly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly
prolongation of the centerline of W. 101 Street;
Thence southerly along said southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Paramjit Singh by deed dated February 15, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s
File Number 200102150596; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-28-026;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to 10302 Madison Ave. LLC by deed dated March 7, 2007 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200703070422, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-27020;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 104 Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 104th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot No.32 in the Schilling and Wetmore Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 29, Page
21 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said southerly line of Sublot No. 32 and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the easterly line of Sublot No. 51 (PPN 001-26-009) in the Jennings, Wetmore and Schillings Et, Al Subdivision shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 47 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along Madison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Frank Kaesberger by deed dated November 26, 1986 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V86677340003, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-26-012;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Berea Road;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Berea Road to its intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of West 106th Street and the principal place of beginning.
and shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 4. That the Use, Height and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of
W. 103rd Street;
Thence northerly along said northerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 103rd Street to its intersection with the
westerly prolongation of the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Madison Avenue LLC by deed dated March 7,
2007 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200703070422 (PPN 001-27-020);
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the principal place of beginning.
and as identified on the attached map are changed to a Semi-Industry District.
Section 5. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 through 4 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2433, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by
the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1635

The City Record

46

October 9, 2013

Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 30, 2013.

Ord. No. 810-13.
By Council Member Keane.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the northwest corner of Lorain Avenue and W.
147th Street to Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2435).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 147th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Marilyn Schneider by deed dated October 5, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 20011005001, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number
024-28-014;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the easterly ling of a parcel of land conveyed to Michael P. and Amy L. Herrin by deed dated April 3,
1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V98038440035, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 024-28-036;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Chu
Duan Zhang by deed dated November 5, 2004 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200411051215, said parcel also being
known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 024-28-037;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Lorain Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of W. 147th Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2435 and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland and shall be on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1636

October 9, 2013

The City Record

47

Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 30, 2013.

Ord. No. 844-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Keane, Cleveland, Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1070-12,
passed September 24, 2012, relating
to an Option to Lease Agreement
with Geis Construction Inc., for an
area known as the Burke Development District to market the district
for future redevelopment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1070-12, passed September
24, 2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into an Option to
Lease Agreement with Geis for the
property known as the Burke Development District which is approximately 20 acres and is bounded by
East 9th Street and Lake Erie to the

west, the Burke Lakefront Airport
terminal to the north, the Cleveland
Air Races Memorial to the east, and
the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway to
the south, and is depicted on the map
placed in File No. 1070-12-A. A copy of
the approved legal description will be
placed in the file when it is obtained.
The term of the Option to Lease
Agreement shall be a period of one
year, which term shall begin on the
effective date of the executed Option
to Lease Agreement, which shall be
executed prior to March 1, 2014, with
one option to extend the Option to
Lease Agreement for an additional
year, exercisable by the Director of
Port Control.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1070-12, passed September 24, 2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013

1637

Ord. No. 864-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of up to three new or
refurbished jet bridges and appurtenances, including installation and
training, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
up to three (3) new or refurbished
jet
bridges
and
appurtenances,
including installation and training,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control.
Section 2. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases autho-

48
rized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-099.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 976-13.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Chapter 679A, Sections 679A.01
through 679A.07 and 679A.99, regulating Donation Boxes.
Whereas, more and more donation
boxes are being placed in Cleveland
by for-profit companies without permission of property owners, and are
not being maintained in a neat, clean
and safe condition; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
wants to promote the public health,
safety, and welfare and aesthetics of
the City of Cleveland by regulating
donation boxes; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented
by
enacting
new
Chapter
679A,
Sections
679A.01
through 679A .07 and 679A.99 to read
as follows:
CHAPTER 679A DONATION BOXES
Section 679A.01  Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Donation box” means a receptacle designed with a door, slot, or
other opening that is intended to
accept and store donated items, such
as, but not limited to, clothing or
household items. The definition of a
donation box shall not include trailers where personnel are present to
accept donations at all times that the
trailer is present and accepting donated items.
(b) “Owner” means a person or an
agent or officer of a person in whom
is vested ownership, dominion, control or title of a donation box.
Section 679A.02  General Prohibition on Placement
No owner of a donation box shall
place or maintain a donation box on
any property in the City of Cleveland
unless such owner shall register with
and obtain a permit for such donation
box from the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
A donation box located inside of a
building shall not require a permit.

The City Record
Section 679A.03 Registration and
Permit Application, Renewal and Fee
(a) Eligibility. The Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses shall
not issue a permit to any donation box
owner who:
(1) is not a tax-exempt organization under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3);
(2) does not maintain a donation
box in accordance with the physical
standards established under Section
679A.04;
(3) would otherwise as a result of
such approval be in violation of a prohibited location or maximum under
Section 679A.05; or
(4) is subject to any correction or
removal order under Section 679A.06.
(b) Before placing a donation box
on any property in the City of Cleveland, the owner of the donation box
shall file a permit application with
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses containing the following:
(1) The name, address, phone, fax
and e-mail of the owner;
(2) The name, address, phone, fax
and e-mail of a person or persons primarily responsible for placing, emptying, servicing, maintaining, and
removing the donation box;
(3) A $100 fee, per donation box,
which shall not be prorated based
upon the time of the year the permit
application is filed;
(4) The name and address of the
party in control of the private property upon which the donation box will
be placed, and written authorization
from the party in control of the private property, including the terms of
its placement by lease or otherwise;
(5) Such other information or material as the Commissioner may require.
(c) The Commissioner shall refer
all permit applications to the Director
of Building and Housing for review
and approval. The Director of Building and Housing shall not approve
the application unless he or she finds
that no provisions of the City’s Building Code or Zoning Code will be violated by issuance of the permit,
including without limitation the following:
(1) Set back requirements;
(2) Use restrictions;
(3) Those portions of the zoning
code that require that a specified
number of parking spaces be available for the use of a particular business.
(d) Permit Term. Permits shall be
valid from the date of issuance until
September 30th of each year. Prior to
expiration of a permit, any owner who
intends to place, display or maintain a
donation box shall obtain a new permit for the next calendar year.
Section 679A.04 Standards
Every donation box shall be maintained in a neat and clean condition
and in good repair at all times. Specifically, but without limiting the forgoing, each donation box shall be serviced and maintained so that it is free
of dirt and grease, free of chipped,
faded, peeling, and cracked paint,
free of rust and corrosion, and free of
cracks, dents, blemishes, and discoloration. Donation boxes shall be emptied regularly and within forty-eight
hours of the primary contact person
being notified by any City official
that the box is full. Each donation box
shall clearly state the name, address,
and phone number of the charity to
which the donated items will benefit.

1638

October 9, 2013
Section 679A.05 Location and Maximum Number of Boxes per Property
(a) No person shall place or maintain and no property owner or tenant
shall permit or maintain any donation
box in any location that obstructs the
sight lines of vehicular traffic.
(b) No more than two outdoor donation boxes shall be permitted on any
parcel of property.
Section 697A.06 Correction Orders
and Removal
(a) Upon determination of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses that a donation box has been
placed or is being maintained in violation of this chapter, an order to correct the offending condition shall be
served on the donation box owner or
primary contact person designated by
the permit holder by certified mail. If
no permit application for the donation
box has been filed with the City, as
required by Section 679A.03, the order
shall be served on the party in control
of the property in person or by certified mail. The order shall describe the
offending condition and actions necessary to correct the condition. The
order shall provide that the permit
holder shall correct the offending condition within five (5) business days
after receipt of the order, or to file an
appeal from the order with the Board
of Zoning Appeals. If a violation is
neither remedied nor appealed within
the time period set forth in the Order,
the Commissioner shall transmit notification to the Director of Public
Works who thereafter may impound
the donation box that has been determined to be in violation of this Chapter.
(b) Appeals of a person adversely
affected by any order, requirement,
decision or determination by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses under this chapter, including a
denial of a permit, shall be heard and
decided by the Board of Zoning
Appeals. The Board may affirm, disaffirm, or grant exception from the
order, requirement, decision or determination from which the appeal has
been taken. If the Board affirms an
order of the Commissioner issued pursuant to division (a) of this section,
the owner shall have three (3) working days to correct the violation or
remove the donation box in question;
if the owner fails to correct the violation within that time, the Commissioner shall transmit notification to
the Director of Public Works who
thereafter may impound the donation
box. Within two (2) days of the date
of an impoundment made pursuant to
this division, notice of the impoundment, including the reasons therefor
shall be served by certified mail to
the donation box owner or primary
contact person designated by the permit holder. If no permit application
for the donation box has been filed
with the City, as required by Section
679A.03, the notice of impoundment
shall be served on the party in control
of the property in person or by certified mail.
Section 679A.07 Disposition of
Impounded Donation Box
Unless the donation box and its contents are being held as evidence in a
criminal prosecution, the owner of a
donation box may, at any time after
impoundment, recover the donation
box and its contents upon payment of
an impound fee of $25.00 plus the reasonable additional costs, if any, of

October 9, 2013
impounding the donation box, including a storage charge of $1.00 per box
per day for each day in excess of five
(5) working days after notification is
given to the owner that the donation
box is in the possession of the City.
Section 679A.99 Penalty
Whoever violates any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a fourth
degree misdemeanor on the first
offense, a misdemeanor of the third
degree on the second offense, and a
misdemeanor of the first degree on
the third and any subsequent offense.
Each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
Section 2. That Chapter 679A shall
take effect and be in force on January
1, 2014.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1095-13.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the titles and various sections of
Ordinance No. 903-07, passed June 11,
2007 and Ordinance No. 1362-12,
passed November 26, 2012, relating
to Steelyard Commons.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1, 3, and 8 of Ordinance No. 90307, passed June 11, 2007, are amended
to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
accept a grant from Steelyard Outlots
LLC, or their designee, to acquire
property from the State of Ohio located in the vicinity of Quigley and Jennings Road for improvements to the
Steelyard Commons commercial center for the Office of Capital Projects;
authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire the
property; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
convey the property to Steelyard Outlots LLC, or their designee; and authorizing an Agreement between the
City and Steelyard Outlots LLC, or
their designee.
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
grant funds in the amount of
$71,500,00, from Steelyard Outlots
LLC, or their designee, (“Steelyards”), to acquire the following properties from the State of Ohio for redevelopment (the “Property”); that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance:
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City of Cleveland all

The City Record
necessary documents to acquire the
Property from the State of Ohio, to
convey the Property to Steelyards,
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraiser, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the Property.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
an Agreement with Steelyards which
shall include the terms and conditions
of the transaction authorized by this
ordinance, including but not limited
to, the financial transaction.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 3, and 8 of Ordinance
No. 903-07, passed June 11, 2007, are
repealed.
Section 3. That the title, the first,
second, and third whereas clauses,
and Sections 1, 4, 6, and 8 of Ordinance
No. 1362-12, passed November 26, 2012,
are amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire property from
Steelyard Outlots LLC, or their
designee and the State of Ohio at
Quigley Road and Steelyard Commons Drive to finalize right-of-way
dedications at Steelyard Commons;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to execute a deed of easement granting to Steelyard Outlots
LLC, or their designee certain easement rights in property located in
Quigley Road and Steelyard Commons Drive, and declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for the City’s public use; and authorizing agreements for other land
donations among parties that are necessary to finalize right-of-way dedications at Steelyard Commons.
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has requested the acquisition of property, at no cost to the City,
which is located at Quigley Road and
Steelyard Commons Drive from Steelyard Outlots LLC, or their designee
(“Steelyards”) and the State of Ohio to
finalize right-of-way dedications at
Steelyard Commons; and
Whereas, Steelyards has requested
the Director of Capital Projects to
convey certain easement rights in
property located in Quigley Road and
Steelyard Commons Drive; and
Whereas, Steelyards requires an
easement to install signage, and for
electrical and maintenance activities
at Quigley Road and Steelyard Commons Drive; and
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to acquire, at
no cost to the City, the following
described property from Steelyards
and the State of Ohio at Quigley Road
and Steelyard Commons Drive to
finalize right-of-way dedications at
Steelyard Commons:
Parcel 1-WDV
Situated in the State of Ohio, City of
Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga,
Brooklyn Township, T7N, R13W, Lots
72 and 85 and being more fully
described as follows:
Being a parcel of land lying on the
left and right sides of the proposed
centerline of right of way of CUYQUIGLEY ROAD CONNECTOR as
surveyed by URS Corporation and
recorded
as
Image
No.______________of the Cuyahoga
County Records and being located

1639

49
within the following described points
on the boundary thereof;
Beginning for record at the southeast corner of Sublot 15 in the Nicola &
Judson Allotment as recorded in Volume 5, Page 7 of the Cuyahoga County Records, said point being 61.83 feet
left of Station 18+07.38 on the proposed centerline of right of way of
Quigley Road Connector and the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the
parcel described herein;
Thence North 01 degrees 51 minutes
47 seconds West, 92.57 feet along the
east line of said Sublot 15 to iron pin
to be set;
Thence North 52 degrees 50 minutes
39 seconds East, 26.74 feet to an iron
pin to be set;
Thence North 37 degrees 47 minutes
01 seconds East, 61.38 feet to an iron
pin to be set;
Thence North 02 degrees 53 minutes
26 seconds West, 55.15 feet to an iron
pin to be set on the south line of an
unrecorded allotment;
Thence North 88 degrees 10 minutes
12 seconds East, 801.45 feet along the
south line of an unrecorded allotment
to iron pin found;
Thence South 44 degrees 16 minutes
13 seconds West, 231.85 feet along
Grantor’s southeast property line to a
point on the Grantor’s easterly line;
Thence South 30 degrees 11 minutes
53 seconds West, 100.47 feet along the
Grantor’s easterly property line, to an
iron pin to be set on the proposed
south right of way line of the Quigley
Road Connector;
Thence South 69 degrees 37 minutes
09 seconds West, 697.21 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence South 81 degrees 25 minutes
25 seconds West, 335.14 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence South 45 degrees 54 minutes
20 seconds West, 55.95 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence South 86 degrees 22 minutes
47 seconds West, 205.98 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set
Thence North 16 degrees 55 minutes
39 seconds East, 114.48 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 25 degrees 21 minutes
38 seconds West, 66.90 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 67 degrees 02 minutes
55 seconds West, 106.52 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 88 degrees 03 minutes
33 seconds East, 301.58 feet along
Grantor’s north property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 01 degrees 56 minutes
31 seconds West, 110.11 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set on the south line of a
one foot reserved strip acquired by
the
State
of
Ohio
per
AFN
200411100762 in the records of Cuyahoga County and the Grantor’s
northerly property line;
Thence North 88 degrees 03 minutes
33 seconds East, 307.65 feet along the
south line of said one foot reserved
strip and the Grantor’s northerly
property line to an iron pin to be set;

50
Thence North 88 degrees 08 minutes
13 seconds East, 77.70 feet along the
south line of said one foot reserved
strip and the Grantor’s property line
to an iron pin to be set;
Thence North 01 degrees 51 minutes
47 seconds West, 15.00 feet along
Grantor’s property line to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING containing
8.965 acres (390,536 sq. ft.) more or
less, 5.625 acres being contained within Lot 85 and 3.340 acres being contained within Lot 72.
The above described area is contained within Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel No. 008-36-003.
Based on a field survey conducted
by URS Corporation in November 2004
under the direction and supervision of
Mark Lukosavich, Registered Surveyor No. 8088 in the State of Ohio.
Bearings used herein are based on
Grid North of the State Plane Coordinate system NAD83(Cors96) Ohio
North Zone.
All iron pins referenced herein are
3/4 inch diameter x 30 inch long iron
bars with a 2-1/2 inch aluminum cap
stamped “URS CORP., P.S. 8088”, to be
set after construction.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on January 4, 2006 for URS
Corporation by Kurt Massar, Registered Surveyor No. 7667 in the State of
Ohio.
Part of Parcel 500 - WL
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, being part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 72 and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
West 14th Street, 100 feet wide, at the
Southwesterly corner of Sublot No. 4
in the J.M Curtiss Resubdivision
recorded by plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of West 14th Street, 15
feet to a point; thence Easterly on a
line parallel with the Southerly line
of said J.M. Curtiss Resubdivision
and along the Southerly line of the
Nicola and Judson Subdivision of part
of said Original Lot No. 72 recorded in
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, page 7 of
Cuyahoga County Records, to the
Southerly Prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot No. 15 in said Nicola
and Judson Subdivision; thence
Northerly along said Southerly prolongation of said Easterly line Sublot
15, one foot; thence westerly on a line
parallel with the Southerly lines of
the aforementioned Nicola and Judson Subdivision and the J.M. Curtiss
Resubdivision to a point which is distant one foot Easterly from the Easterly line of West 14th Street; thence
Northerly on a line parallel with Easterly line of West 14th Street, 14 feet to
the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 4
in the J.M Curtiss Resubdivision ;
thence westerly along the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 4 one foot to the
place of beginning, and being known
as the one foot reserved strip shown
in the plat of Nicola and Judson Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 72 recorded in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 7of Cuyahoga
County Records be the same more or
less but subject to all legal highways.
The above described area is contained within Auditor’s Parcel Number 008-13-017.
The intent of the above description
is to acquire all rights the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,

The City Record
has or should have had to “Parcel No.
2” per Instrument # 200411100762 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder
records.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Sublot No. 4 in
J.M. Curtis Re-allotment and part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
72, as shown by the recorded plat of
said re-allotment in Volume 14 of
Maps, page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
The above described area is contained within Auditor’s Parcel Number 008-13-016.
The intent of the above description
is to acquire all rights the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,
has or should have had to “Parcel No.
3” per Instrument # 200411100762 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder
records.
Parcel No. 3
Situated in the County of Cuyahoga
and State of Ohio and the City fo
Cleveland and known as being part of
sublots 24 and 25 in Nicola and Judson
Allotment, recorded in Volume 5,
Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Record of
Maps and further described as having
a frontage of 100.04 feet along a 14
foot Alley and being 73.09 feet along
its Easterly line an 72.45 feet along its
Westerly line.
The above described area is contained within Auditor’s Parcel Number 008-13-020.
The intent of the above description
is to acquire all rights the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,
has or should have had to “Parcel No.
4” per Instrument # 200411100762 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder
records.
Part of a vacated unnamed alley
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, known as being part Original
Lot No. 72 of Brooklyn Township,
being part of an unnamed alley as
shown on the Nicola and Judson Allotment as recorded in Plat Volume 5,
Page 7 of the Cuyahoga County
Recorder
records,
and
further
described as follows:
Being the southerly 7 feet of a portion of a vacated 14 foot unnamed
alley as vacated per City of Cleveland
Ordinance No. 14-06 as passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland the
9th day of January, 2006.
Being a strip of land approximately
251 feet long and 7 feet wide and containing about 1756 square feet of land,
more or less, subject to survey.
The above described area is not
part of any current Cuyahoga County
Auditor parcel number at this time.
The intent of the above described
parcel is to transfer any and all rights
the State of Ohio, Department of
Transportation, has or may have had
in the vacated southerly half of the
portion of the unnamed vacated alley
described above.
New PPN: 008-13-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Consolidated
Parcel “CC” in the Lot Split and Consolidation Plat of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 72 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
353 of Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga
County Records, as appears by said
plat.
Section 4. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized

1640

October 9, 2013
to convey the above-described easement interest to Steelyards subject to
any conditions stated in this ordinance, at a price of $1.00 and for other
valuable consideration, which is
determined to be fair market value.
Section 6. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Capital Projects; that the easement
shall require that Steelyards provide
reasonable insurance, maintain any
Steelyards improvements located
within the easement; pay any applicable taxes and assessments; and shall
contain such other terms and conditions that the Director of Law determines to be necessary to protect and
benefit the City.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State of Ohio and/or Steelyards for
additional land donations from the
State of Ohio and/or Steelyard Commons LLC that may be necessary to
finalize right-of-way dedications at
Quigley Road, Steelyards Common
Drive and Jennings Road in the vicinity of Steelyard Commons.
Section 4. That the existing title,
the first, second, and third whereas
clauses, and Sections 1, 4, 6, and 8 of
Ordinance No. 1362-12, passed November 26, 2012, are repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1096-13.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 17 of Ordinance No. 908-12,
passed August 8, 2012, relating to
the Denison Avenue underground
ductbank and resurfacing project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 17 of Ordinance No. 908-12, passed August 8,
2012 is amended to read as follows:
Section 17. That the cost of the
Improvement, contracts, property
acquisition, or other expenditure
authorized in this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF
383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20
SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534,
20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 52 SF 001, 58 SF
230 and from the fund or funds which
are credited the funds received under
the Local Public Agency Agreement
with the Ohio Department of Transportation authorized by this ordinance and which funds are appropriated for this purpose. Request No.
RQS 0103, RL 2012-118.
Section 2. That existing Section 17
of Ordinance No. 908-12, passed
August 8, 2012 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

October 9, 2013
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1100-13.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for the repair of the
Tower City Bridge Complex; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; to apply for and accept
any gifts or grants for this purpose
from any public or private entities;
authorizing one or more contracts
with consultants and agreements
with public and private entities; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire,
accept, and record for right-of-way
purposes any real property and easements
necessary
to
make
the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repair of
the Tower City Bridge Complex
which consists of Huron Road,
Prospect Avenue, West 6th Street,
West 3rd Street, and West 2nd Street
near Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority Rapid Transit Station (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director Capital
Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of the
Improvement, the City will:
(a) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;

The City Record
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the State and hold
the right-of-way inviolate for public
highway purposes.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets and public rights-of-way within the City that are necessary for the
Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That the City agrees that all
right-of-way
required
for
the
described project will be acquired
and/or made available under current
State and federal regulations. The
City also understands that right-ofway costs include eligible utility
costs.
(c) That the installation of all utility facilities, relocation, and reimbursement on the right-of-way shall
conform with the requirements of
Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT Utilities Manual.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with Ohio Department of
Transportation (“ODOT”) pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary
engineering phase of the Improvement and to enter into contracts with
the State necessary to complete the
above described project. Upon the
request of ODOT, the Director of Capital Projects is also authorized to
assign all rights, title, and interests
of the City to ODOT arising from any
agreement with its consultant in
order to allow ODOT to direct additional or corrective work, recover
damages due to errors or omissions,
and to exercise all other contractual
rights and remedies afforded by law
or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional design, engineering and
construction services necessary for
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the

1641

51
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the
Improvement. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the entities for
this purpose.
Section 11. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority, the
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District and other entities to obtain services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects, when necessary, is
authorized to cause payment to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, and other entities or payment of any services which were necessary to construct the Improvement
described in this ordinance.
Section 13. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value.
Section 14. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 15. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 16. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 17. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited any gift or grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance, cash matches, cash contributions accepted and
appropriated under this ordinance,
and Fund Nos. 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20
SF 524, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540,
20 SF 546, and 20 SF 554, RQS 0103, RL
2013-130.
Section 18. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.

52
Section 19. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1107-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating Runway 6R-24L at Burke Lakefront Airport; authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts to construct the improvement;
authorizing the director to employ
one or more professional consultants
necessary to design the improvement; and to enter into one or more
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating
Runway 6R-24L at Burke Lakefront
Airport (the “Improvement”), for the
Department of Port Control, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port

The City Record
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period to be
determined by the Director of the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to
construct the Improvement, including
labor and materials if necessary, that
are not purchased under the public
improvement contract or professional
services contracts authorized in this
ordinance,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Port Control. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60
SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112,
60 SF 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF
117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60
SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141,
60 SF 160, and from the fund or funds
to which are credited any grants or
any passenger facility charges if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-126.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1108-13.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. MA 2011-119 with United Rotary Brush to provide the
requirements of automotive parts,
including
labor,
materials,
and
installation, if necessary.

1642

October 9, 2013
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 190-07, passed March
12, 2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. MA 2011119 with United Rotary Brush to provide the requirements of automotive
parts, including labor, materials,
and installation, if necessary; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 190-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No. MA
2011-119 for an additional year with
United Rotary Brush for the requirements for an additional year of automotive parts, including labor, materials, and installation, if necessary.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 190-07 to exercise
this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1111-13.
By Council Members Conwell,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located near the southeast corner of
Euclid Avenue and East 116th Street
to The Cleveland Institute of Art, or
its designee, for purposes of redevelopment.
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has requested the sale of
the City-owned property to The
Cleveland Institute of Art, or its
designee (the “Redeveloper”) no
longer needed for public use and
located near the southeast corner of
Euclid Avenue and East 116th Street
for purposes of redevelopment; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it
is found and determined that the following described standard highway
easement is no longer needed for public use:
Description of a 0.0101 Acre Tract
Located southeasterly of
Euclid Avenue and between
Mayfield Road and East 117th Street
Cleveland, Ohio.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre

October 9, 2013
Lots No. 395 and 396, Range 12 West,
Township 9 North of the Connecticut
Western Reserve Survey and being
part of a tract of land as conveyed to
University Circle Development Foundation by deed of record in Deed Volume 12337, Page 263, being part of a
tract of land as conveyed to the
McCoullough Center, LLC, by deed of
record in A.F.N. 200704230202, being
part of sublot number 11 as conveyed
in Andrew Cozad’s Allotment by plat
of record in Plat Volume 7, Page 21,
being all of the permanent right-ofway easement labeled Parcel 300-SH
as conveyed in A.F.N. 200606130782
and being part of the permanent
right-of-way easement labeled Parcel
288-SH
as
conveyed
in
A.F.N.
200701190507; all record document references in this legal description being
to the Recorder’s Office, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and being more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at point on the northeasterly corner of said Parcel 300-SH,
on the southeasterly right-of-way of
Euclid Avenue, width varies, and on
the northwesterly line of said McCullough Center, LLC tract, said point
also being the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
tract of land.
01. Then South 23° 46' 37" West, a
distance of 30.76 feet along the southeasterly line of said Parcel 300-SH
and through said McCullough Center,
LLC tract to point;
02. Thence south 42° 44' 49" West, a
distance of 29.52 feet along the southeasterly line of said Parcel 288-SH
and through said University Circle
Development Foundation tract to a
point;
03. Thence North 47 ° 15' 11" West,
a distance of 10.00 feet through said
Parcel 288-SH and through said University Circle Development Foundation tract to a point;
04. Thence North 42° 44' 49" East, a
distance of 58.61 feet along the northwesterly line of said Parcel 288-SH,
along the northwesterly line of said
University Circle Development Foundation, along the northwesterly line
of said Parcel 300-SH and along the
northwesterly line of said McCullough Center, LLC tract, to the True
Point of Beginning and containing
0.0101 acres, more or less, and subject
to all legal easements, restrictions,
reservations, conditions and rights-ofway of previous record.
The basis of bearing in this description is based on the southeasterly line
of Euclid being North 42° 44'49" East.
This description is based on a field
survey made by Michael Benza &
Associates, Inc. in February 2009
under project number 4188.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Redeveloper
at a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances as may be
placed by the City of Cleveland in the
deed of conveyance. The City is
authorized to obtain one or more
ingress and egress easements from
Redeveloper for the purpose of relocating sidewalk amenities. The Director of Capital Projects is authorized
to execute any documents as may be
necessary to effect the purposes of
this ordinance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed pre-

The City Record
pared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1228-13.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Keane, Mitchell and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating
Agency for 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause payment of membership dues of the City
of Cleveland to be made to the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating
Agency for 2014.
Section 2. That the payment for the
dues and subscriptions shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-9998-6232.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1230-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors or one or more firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors necessary to implement various projects under the current Information Technology Capital Strategic Plan, including but not
limited to, software and application
acquisition,
project
management,
design, installation, implementation,
integration, testing, training and
other related issues; and to enter
into various written standard purchase and requirement contracts for
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement this
ordinance.

1643

53
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants, for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement various projects under the current Information Technology Capital
Strategic Plan, which includes but is
not limited to, updating, upgrading
and improving computers, peripheral
ancillary devices, communications
and network infrastructures, Citywide applications needed for the Citizen’s Call Center, SharePoint 2010
System, Uninterruptable Power Supplies, Storage Area Networks, Desktop Computer Upgrades, and the VoIP
Telephone System Upgrades.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one or more firms of
consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the purpose of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland to
acquire one or more software licenses
and city-wide applications necessary
to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance, including but not limited to,
Windows 7 and Office 2010, which are
not obtained under a professional services contact authorized in this ordinance.
Section 3. The selection of the consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the services shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Finance from a list of qualified consultants, computer software developers, or vendors available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Finance for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, and
approved and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the period of requirements to be
determined by the director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to effectuate the purposes of this
ordinance and which are not obtained
under a professional services contract
authorized in this ordinance, including labor and materials if necessary,
to be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Information
Technology and Services, Department of Finance. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.

54
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund No. 11
SF 006, Request No. RQS 1511, RL
2013-132.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1233-13.
By Council Members Keane, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Port Control
and Public Works to enter into two
long-term lease agreements with the
Board of Park Commissioners of the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District providing for the lease of real
properties at Rivergate Park located near Merwin Avenue and Columbus Road in order for the City to
construct a skate park and for
Metroparks to construct a riverside
park and to grant and accept
ingress and egress easements needed to redevelop said properties as
park and recreation areas.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to enter into two long-term
lease agreements with the Board of
Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan
Park
District
(“Metroparks”) providing for the
lease of real properties at Rivergate
Park located near Merwin Avenue
and Columbus Road in order for
City to construct a skate park and
for Metroparks to construct a riverside park; and
Whereas, the City property to be
leased to Metroparks will continue
to be open to the public; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Directors of Port Control and
Public Works are authorized to enter
into two long-term lease agreements

The City Record
for and on behalf of the City of Cleveland with Metroparks providing for
99-year leases between the City of
Cleveland and Metroparks of the following described properties:
Parcel No. 1: City of Cleveland
lease to Metroparks (Dept. of
Port Control river parcel)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of the
Cleveland Centre Allotment of the Ox
Box, or Cases Point, as said Cleveland
Centre Allotment is recorded in Volume 2, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the southwesterly
line of Merwin Street, N.W., at its
intersection with the westerly line of
land conveyed by The Cleveland
Builders Supply and Brick Company
to The Union Trust Company September 23, 1925, by deed recorded in Volume 3431, Page 197 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records; thence South 2
degrees 13 minutes 55 seconds East,
measured along said westerly line,
155.07 feet to the established dock line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence North
69 degrees 41 minutes 19 seconds
West, measured along said established dock line, 7.03 feet to an angle;
thence continuing along said established dock line North 65 degrees 17
minutes 39 seconds West 259.90 feet to
the northwesterly line of land conveyed to The Cleveland Builders Supply and Brick Company July 1, 1919,
by deed recorded in Volume 2313,
Page 194 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence North 27 degrees 20
minutes 05 seconds East, measured
along said northwesterly line, 147.66
feet to said southwesterly line of Merwin Street, N.W.; thence South 62
degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds East
190.10 feet to the place of beginning,
and containing 32,686 square feet, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Including from the centerline
southerly all that portion of vacated
Merwin Street N.W. (60.00 feet wide)
as shown in Volume 247, page 48 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Parcel No. 2: Metroparks
lease to the City of Cleveland
(proposed Skate Park parcel)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Parcel “Z”
of the Lot Split Plat of Parcel “C” and
Consolidation of Parcel “A”, “B” and
part of “C” as shown in Volume 370,
Page 73 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Commencing at a drill hole found at
the easterly end of the centerline of
Merwin Street (60.0 feet wide) Vacated by Volume 247, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence N 02° 19' 10" W 34.43 feet to
a 5/8" iron pin found on the northerly
line of said Merwin Street (Vacated);
Thence N 02° 04' 57" W along the
westerly line of the parcel of land conveyed to The Cleveland Union Terminals Company by Volume 3739, Page
561 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, 368.95 feet to the place of
beginning;
Thence continuing N 02° 04' 57" W
along said westerly line of The Cleveland Union Terminals Company parcel 298.73 feet to a point;
Thence southwesterly along the
southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Flats Industrial Railroad

1644

October 9, 2013
Company by deed Volume 98-2328,
Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 75.41 feet said
curve having a radius of 617.27 feet,
and a chord which bears S 40° 14' 53"
W 75.37 feet to a drill hole found;
Thence S 36° 44' 53" W continuing
along said southerly line of the Flats
Industrial Railroad Company parcel
and along the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Pennsylvania
Lines LLC by A.F.N. 200208200162 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records
218.84 feet to a Railroad Spike found;
Thence S 53° 15' 07" E 115.68 feet to
a Railroad Spike found;
Thence N 87° 55' 03" E 97.86 feet to
a point of intersection with said westerly line of The Cleveland Union Terminals Company parcel and the principal place of beginning and containing 32,003 square feet, 0.74 acres.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is also authorized to accept
one or more ingress and egress easements over Metroparks property for
access to the skate park. The Director of Port Control is also authorized
to grant one or more ingress and
egress easements over the City’s property for Metroparks to access a proposed trail adjacent to this parcel.
Section 3. That the agreements
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall provide
that the acreage of the real properties
being leased are similar in size and
location and shall be leased at a
rental of $1.00 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be
fair market value, exclusive of utilities, at no additional cost to either
party except the City shall pay closing costs and costs associated with
Metroparks’ Phase One environmental assessment, Phase Two environmental assessment, title commitment
and recording fees, provided that
such fees do not exceed a total of
$5,000.00.
Section 4. That the lease for Parcel
No. 1 referred to in Section 1 shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by Metroparks, and executed by the Director of Port Control on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
lease shall contain provisions against
the erection of any advertising signs
or billboards, excepting permitted
identification signs.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to lease Parcel No.
2 referred to in Section 1 and to
employ and pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers,
environmental audits and all other
costs necessary for the lease of the
properties. The lease may provide for
the City’s payment of appropriate
utility and other operating costs of
the leased premises.
Section 6. That both leases may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of Metroparks
and appropriate City agencies and
officials.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

October 9, 2013

The City Record

55

Ord. No. 1344-13.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 47 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011 as amended
by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 47 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 87812, passed July 11, 2012, Ord. No. 1045-12, passed August 8, 2012, and Ordinance No. 121-13, passed July 28, 2013,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 47. Hourly Rate - Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Effective
Date
Asbestos Worker (Insulator)
8/1/13
Boiler Maker .................................................................................1/1/13
Bricklayer ......................................................................................5/1/13
Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................5/1/13
Carpenter ........................................................................................5/1/13
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................5/1/13
Cement Finisher ..........................................................................5/1/13
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................5/1/13
Electrical Worker .......................................................................4/29/13
Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................4/29/13
Glazier .............................................................................................5/1/13
Ironworker .....................................................................................5/1/13
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................5/1/13
Painter.............................................................................................6/3/13
Painter Foreman .........................................................................6/3/13
Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................5/1/13
Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................5/1/13
Plasterer .........................................................................................5/1/13
Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................5/1/13
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................5/1/13
Plumber Foreman .......................................................................5/1/13
Roofer ..............................................................................................4/28/13
Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................5/1/13
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................5/1/13

Minimum
$44.30
47.49
36.43
37.68
36.13
37.37
36.67
37.92
45.13
46.38
35.29
41.13
42.38
31.86
33.11
44.14
45.39
35.46
36.71
44.18
45.43
36.72
44.91
46.16

Maximum
$55.38
59.36
45.54
46.54
45.15
46.30
45.84
46.59
56.41
57.56
44.11
51.41
53.91
39.82
40.82
55.17
55.67
44.33
45.83
55.23
56.73
45.90
56.14
58.64

Section 2. That existing Section 47 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 878-12, passed July 11, 2012, Ord. No. 1045-12, passed August 8, 2012, and Ordinance No. 121-13, passed
July 28, 2013, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

Ord. No. 1345-13.
By Council Members Miller and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and approving a contract with
Schirmer Construction for the emergency repair or replacement of the
retaining wall along a portion of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard; and
authorizing the Mayor to apply for
and accept a grant from the Ohio Public Works Commission to partially
finance the emergency repair.
Whereas, in September, 2013, the
existing retaining wall on Martin
Luther King Jr. Boulevard between
Ambleside Drive and North Park
Boulevard has slipped into the adjacent valley closing the travel lane by
the wall; and
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has determined, based on
considerations of experience, project
approach, immediate availability,
project delivery capability, completion date, and quality, cost, and safety, that the City should contract with
Schirmer Construction for the imme-

diate construction of repairing or
replacing the retaining wall and abating the emergency; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes and approves a contract by and
between the Director of Capital Projects and Schirmer Construction for
the emergency repair or replacement
of the existing retaining wall on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard
between Ambleside Drive and North
Park Boulevard.
Section 2. That the Mayor is authorized to apply for and accept a grant
in the approximate amount of
$340,000, which represents approximately 80% of the project cost, from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for partial financing of the emergency repair to the damaged retaining wall on Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard; that the Mayor is autho-

1645

rized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in this ordinance.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance and, the City’s remaining 20% portion, shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF
524, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20
SF 546, and 20 SF 554, RQS 0103, RL
2013-145.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2013.
Effective October 1, 2013.

The City Record

56
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Polensek,
Pruitt.
Absence: Sweeney.

Authorized

2:00 p.m.
Monday, October 7, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Conwell, Keane, Polensek. Authorized Absence: J. Johnson, Vice
Chair; Kelley.
11:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson, Keane,

City
Planning
Committee
&
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Dow, Keane,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Conwell.
Present in Finance: Kelley, Chair;
Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.

October 9, 2013
Tuesday, October 8, 2013
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Wednesday, October 9, 2013
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee:
Present:
Keane,
Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Consent Agreement for the repair of The Tower City Bridge Complex (Ward 03) (O 1100-13) . .
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — Cleveland Foundation —
establish Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — Amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09
(O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Geis Co., Ameritrust, TIF — Designate Property as Blighted —
Amend 871-13 (O 1242-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neighborhood Technology Center Program — computer training — Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 02 CRF) (O 1387-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — contracts — Windstream Lines for Telecommunication Service Lines
needed outside of Cuyahoga County (O 1240-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605

Banners
Hispanic Roundtable Community Programs — Lorain Ave. and West 30th St. — Oct. 10 to Oct.
25 — Convencion Hispana 2013 — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1380-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
Third District Police Station, Phase II — per Ord. 1241-12 to Panzica Construction —
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 589-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Third District Police Station, Phase II — per Ord. 1241-12 to Panzica Construction —
Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 589-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

Board of Control — City of Beachwood
Sell parcels — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96 to Chagrin Highlands, Ltd.
(BOC Res. 587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1613
Sell parcels — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96 to Chagrin Highlands, Ltd.
(BOC Res. 588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

Board of Control — Cleveland Municipal Court
Criminal and Civil filing system — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to GBS Corp. — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 571-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Brainard Avenue, 1807 (Ward 14) — PPN 008-16-140 — Eric Lutzo (BOC Res. 577-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Cable Avenue, 5897 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-27-073 — James and Laura Beadling (BOC Res. 552-13)
Cleveland Botanical Gardens — lease various parcels on scattered sites (Ward 12)
(BOC Res. 586-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deveny Avenue, 7216 (Ward 12) — PPN 134-11-034 — Eric Mosier (BOC Res. 547-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 52nd Street, 3691 (Ward 12) — PPN 131-35-011 — Teresa Boothe (BOC Res. 583-13) . . . . . . . . .

1646

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612

October 9, 2013

The City Record

57

East 81st Street and East 82nd Street (Ward 5) — PPN 126-30-045/046/047/058/059 —
OMC Fellowship C.O.G.I.C. (BOC Res. 546-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firsby Avenue, 12801 (Ward 17) — PPN 019-21-122 — Kernels Property Group (BOC Res. 549-13).
Gertrude Avenue, 6920 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-15-103 — Walter R. Eddy (BOC Res. 548-13) . . . . . . .
Longemead Avenue, 11751 (Ward 18) — PPN 020-11-070 — Elizabeth Fowler and Mark Kennedy
(BOC Res. 584-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oakview Avenue, 11703 (Ward 10) — PPN 111-06-051 — Alisa Hill (BOC Res. 580-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockfern Avenue, 14314 (Ward 18) — PPN 027-35-059 — Gary Layman (BOC Res. 550-13). . . . . . . .
Saranac Road, 15702, 15630, 15622 (Ward 11) — PPN 116-10-018/019/021 — Pharmacy
Whole Sale Logistics, Inc. — amend BOC Res. 528-13 (BOC Res. 544-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 5407 (Ward 8) — PPN 105-08-021 — Abajibapashree, Inc. (BOC Res. 578-13) . . . .
West 125th Street, 3350 (Ward 17) — PPN 021-24-062 — Katherine Weaver and David Weaver
(BOC Res. 545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 133rd Street, 3830 (Ward 18) — PPN 022-13-060 — Cheryl Joan Shirokey (BOC Res. 551-13) .
West 136th Street, 3367 (Ward 18) — PPN 021-32-036 — Vanessa Jakubowski (BOC Res. 553-13) . .
West 50th Street, 1842 (Ward 15) — PPN 002-35-215 (northerly portion) — Richard H. Swager
(BOC Res. 581-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 1842 (Ward 15) — PPN 002-35-215 (southerly portion) — Matthew Fehrmann
(BOC Res. 582-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 61st Street, 3194 and 3204 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-07-026/029 — lease — NxGen Preserve
(BOC Res. 585-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 86th Street, 3269 (Ward 16) — PPN 017-07-012 — Michael Hamilton (BOC Res. 579-13) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Willard Park Garage — Best of Cleveland Party — October 11, 2013 —
MVP Valet Services, LLC per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610

Board of Control — Finance Department
Criminal and Civil filing system — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to GBS Corp. — behalf of
Cleveland Municipal Court (BOC Res. 571-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96 to Chagrin
Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1613
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96 to Chagrin
Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Brainard Avenue, 1807 (Ward 14) — PPN 008-16-140 — Eric Lutzo (BOC Res. 577-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Cable Avenue, 5897 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-27-073 — James and Laura Beadling (BOC Res. 552-13)
Cleveland Botanical Gardens — lease various parcels on scattered sites (Ward
12) (BOC Res. 586-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deveny Avenue, 7216 (Ward 12) — PPN 134-11-034 — Eric Mosier (BOC Res. 547-13) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 52nd Street, 3691 (Ward 12) — PPN 131-35-011 — Teresa Boothe (BOC Res. 583-13) . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street and East 82nd Street (Ward 5) — PPN 126-30-045/046/047/058/059 —
OMC Fellowship C.O.G.I.C. (BOC Res. 546-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firsby Avenue, 12801 (Ward 17) — PPN 019-21-122 — Kernels Property Group (BOC Res. 549-13).
Gertrude Avenue, 6920 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-15-103 — Walter R. Eddy (BOC Res. 548-13) . . . . . . .
Longemead Avenue, 11751 (Ward 18) — PPN 020-11-070 — Elizabeth Fowler and Mark Kennedy
(BOC Res. 584-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oakview Avenue, 11703 (Ward 10) — PPN 111-06-051 — Alisa Hill (BOC Res. 580-13). . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockfern Avenue, 14314 (Ward 18) — PPN 027-35-059 — Gary Layman (BOC Res. 550-13). . . . . . . .
Saranac Road, 15702, 15630, 15622 (Ward 11) — PPN 116-10-018/019/021 — Pharmacy
Whole Sale Logistics, Inc. — amend BOC Res. 528-13 (BOC Res. 544-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 5407 (Ward 8) — PPN 105-08-021 — Abajibapashree, Inc. (BOC Res. 578-13) . . . .
West 125th Street, 3350 (Ward 17) — PPN 021-24-062 — Katherine Weaver and David Weaver
(BOC Res. 545-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 133rd Street, 3830 (Ward 18) — PPN 022-13-060 — Cheryl Joan Shirokey (BOC Res. 551-13) .
West 136th Street, 3367 (Ward 18) — PPN 021-32-036 — Vanessa Jakubowski (BOC Res. 553-13) . .
West 50th Street, 1842 (Ward 15) — PPN 002-35-215 (northerly portion) — Richard H. Swager
(BOC Res. 581-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 1842 (Ward 15) — PPN 002-35-215 (southerly portion) — Matthew Fehrmann
(BOC Res. 582-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 61st Street, 3194 and 3204 (Ward 15) — PPN 016-07-026/029 — lease — NxGen Preserve
(BOC Res. 585-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 86th Street, 3269 (Ward 16) — PPN 017-07-012 — Michael Hamilton (BOC Res. 579-13) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1611

Board of Control — Land Sales
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96
Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96
Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1647

to Chagrin
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1613
to Chagrin
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

The City Record

58

October 9, 2013

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Allison transmissions, remanufactured — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 541-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-freeze/coolant — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 540-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generator maintenance and repairs — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to W.W. Williams Midwest, Inc.,
dba W.W. Williams — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 543-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paving markings, Thermo and Epoxy — per C.O. Sec. 181.01 to Trafftech Inc. — Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 575-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, tubes, tire recapping — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., dba
Wingfoot Commercial Tire Systems, LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 576-13) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Parking Redevelopment Program, Phase I design/build services — approve subconsultants —
Contract #PS2012*262 per BOC Res. 453-12 (BOC Res. 573-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Parking Redevelopment Program, Phase I design/build services — approve subconsultants —
Contract #PS2012*262 per BOC Res. 453-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 573-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

Board of Control — Property Management Division
HVAC/R items, materials, parts and equipment — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Cleveland
Hermetic & Supply, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 542-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Third District Police Station, Phase II — per Ord. 1241-12 to Panzica Construction —
Division of Architecture and Site Development, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 589-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Potassium permanganate — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 572-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Allison transmissions, remanufactured — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 541-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-freeze/coolant — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 540-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generator maintenance and repairs — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to W.W. Williams Midwest, Inc.,
dba W.W. Williams — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 543-13) . . . . . . . . .
HVAC/R items, materials, parts and equipment — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Cleveland
Hermetic & Supply, Inc. — Division of Property Management (BOC Res. 542-13) . . . . . . . . . .
Paving markings, Thermo and Epoxy — per C.O. Sec. 181.01 to Trafftech Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 575-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recycle stations, single stream — per Ord. 732-07, 51-09, 560-11, 727-13 to Highland
Products Group, LLC — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 539-13) . . . . .
Tires, tubes, tire recapping — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., dba
Wingfoot Commercial Tire Systems, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 576-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valet parking service at Willard Park Garage — Best of Cleveland Party — October 11, 2013 —
MVP Valet Services, LLC per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 574-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96
Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 587-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1166-96
Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 588-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

to Chagrin
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1613
to Chagrin
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1614

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Allison transmissions, remanufactured — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Cleveland Peterbilt, LLC —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 541-13). . . . . .
Anti-freeze/coolant — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Northeast Lubricants, Ltd. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 540-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Criminal and Civil filing system — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to GBS Corp. — behalf of
Cleveland Municipal Court, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 571-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generator maintenance and repairs — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to W.W. Williams Midwest, Inc.,
dba W.W. Williams — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 543-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1648

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606

October 9, 2013

The City Record

59

HVAC/R items, materials, parts and equipment — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Cleveland
Hermetic & Supply, Inc. — Division of Property Management, Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 542-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paving markings, Thermo and Epoxy — per C.O. Sec. 181.01 to Trafftech Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 575-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Potassium permanganate — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recycle stations, single stream — per Ord. 732-07, 51-09, 560-11, 727-13 to Highland
Products Group, LLC — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 539-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, tubes, tire recapping — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., dba
Wingfoot Commercial Tire Systems, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 576-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610

Board of Control — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Recycle stations, single stream — per Ord. 732-07, 51-09, 560-11, 727-13 to Highland
Products Group, LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 539-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1606

Board of Control — Water Division
Potassium permanganate — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 572-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Valet parking service — Best of Cleveland Party — October 11, 2013 — MVP Valet Services,
LLC per C.O. Sec. 183.04 (BOC Res. 574-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1610

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Buckeye Road, 11133, (Ward 6) — St. Mark Baptist Church, owner, and the Cleveland Clinic,
lessee — appeal granted and adopted on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-196) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 11205, (Ward 6) — St. Mark Baptist Church, owner, and the Cleveland Clinic,
lessee — appeal granted and adopted on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-197) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 4069, (Ward 2) — Number One Grace Property LLC, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-69). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1561, (Ward 9) — University Place, LP, a.k.a. Bluewater Capitol —
appeal heard on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-201) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th Street, 1180, (Ward 3) — The City of Cleveland and the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority — appeal heard on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-145) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 2843, (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, owner, and
Welcome House, Incorporated, prospective purchaser — appeal postponed to 11/18/13
on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-139) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 3006, (Ward 3) — Wael Amal Ayyad, owner — appeal heard on
10/7/13 (Cal. 13-140) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northcliff Avenue, 5201, (Ward 13) — Dwight and Gayle Lee, owners — appeal heard on
10/7/13 (Cal. 13-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Street, 2077, (Ward 3) — Deanne Malakar, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
10/7/13 (Cal. 13-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street, 1404-06, (Ward 3) — Striebinger Block, LLC, owner, and 1404 West 29th
Street, LLC, tenant — appeal heard on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-191) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd Street, 1089, (Ward 3) — The City of Cleveland and the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority — appeal heard on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-144) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 88th Street, 3478, (Ward 16) — Samuel Velez — appeal heard on 10/7/13 (Cal. 13-203). . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Clark Avenue, 3506, (Ward 14) — Serrat Enterprises, owner, and Checkers
Drive-In Restaurants, prospective tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-214)
Clement Avenue, 7005, (Ward 12) — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Incorporated,
owner — appeal to be heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 25th Street, 1417, (Ward 3) — Cement Masons Local 404, owner — appeal to be heard
on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-220) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 12710, (Ward 2) — Badran, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/21/13
(Cal. 13-218) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 101st Street, 2216, (Ward 16) — Irina and Gheoghe Ciornei, owners, and Vasile
Balescu, tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard, 2163, (Ward 16) — Cuyahoga County Land Bank, owner, and Jason
Brooks, prospective purchaser — appeal to be heard on 10/21/13 (Cal. 13-216) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624

Bridges
Urging State of Ohio Issue 1 Funds — repair the East 152nd St. Bridge over the Conrail
yard, (Ward 10) (R 1351-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

1649

The City Record

60

October 9, 2013

Burke Lakefront Airport
Amend Section 1 Of Ord. No. 1070-12 — Burke Development District — Option to Lease
Agreement — Geis Construction Inc. (O 844-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Port Control — Lease Agreements — various companies — Use of Certain Airport-Owned Space
at Burke Lakefront Airport & CHIA (O 754-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633
Runway 6R-24L (Rehab.) — Public Improvement Contracts — Professional Services (O 1107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642

Capital Projects
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept Issue 1 grant — contract — Schirmer Construction — emergency repair
or replacement of existing retaining wall on Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd.
(O 1345-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brownell Court, S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1293-13).
Consent Agreement for the repair of The Tower City Bridge Complex (Ward 03) (O 1100-13) .
Denison Avenue Underground Ductbank and Resurfacing Project — Amend Ord. 908-12
(O 1096-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hispanic Roundtable Community Programs — banner — Lorain Ave. and West 30th St. —
Oct. 10 to Oct. 25 — Convencion Hispana 2013 (Ward 03) (O 1380-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell Property at Euclid Ave. and East 116th St. to The Cleveland Institute Of Art —
right-of-way Easement (O 1111-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Steelyard Commons — Amend Ord. 903-07 and Ord. 1362-12 (O 1095-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639

Case Western Reserve University (CWRU)
Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation Program, FY13 — Grant — U.S. Department of Justice —
Contracts (O 1235-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604

City Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — October 7th Meeting (F 1384-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

City of Cleveland Bids
Ballistic vests and carriers — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police —
per C.O. Sec. 135.06 — bid due October 24, 2013 (advertised 10/2/2013 and 10/9/2013) . . . . . . .
Deicing Chemicals (FAA-approved) — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 750-13 — bid due
October 31, 2013 (advertised 10/9/2013 and 10/16/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fluorosilicic acid — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O. Sec.
129.24 — bid due November 8, 2013 (advertised 10/9/2013 and 10/16/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer connection rehabilitation and repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.292 — bid due November 6, 2013 (advertised
10/9/2013 and 10/16/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transmissions, remanufactured — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due November 1, 2013 (advertised 10/9/2013
and 10/16/2013). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Treadway Creek Trail improvements — Department of Public Works — Division of
Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 607-10 — bid due October 30, 2013
(advertised 10/9/2013 and 10/16/2013) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing supplies, 2014 — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per
C.O. Sec. 135.06 — bid due October 24, 2013 (advertised 10/2/2013 and 10/9/2013) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626

City Planning Commission
Brownell Court, S.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 08) (O 1293-13) . . . . .
Community Entertainment Districts Defined — Amend Section 699A.011 — Playhouse
Square Community Entertainment District (O 1222-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave. and West 55th St. (east side) — change Use, Area and Height Districts
(Ward 15) (O 1375-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 62nd St. south of Grdina Dr. — change Use and Area Districts (Ward 07) (O 1379-13) . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. and W. 147th St. — Change Use, Area and Height Districts (Ward 19) (O 810-13) . .
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 99 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 758-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & South sides of Madison Ave. (between W. 98 St. & W. 85 St.) — Change Use, Area
and Height District (Ward 16) (O 408-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St. (between Madison Ave. and Lorain Ave.) — change Use District (Ward 15)
(O 1377-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St. south of Lorain Ave. — change Use and Area Districts (Ward 15) (O 1378-13) . . .
West 73rd St. (between Guthrie Ave. and Colgate Ave.) — change Use District
(Ward 15) (O 1376-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1598

Clerk of Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — October 7th Meeting (F 1384-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

1650

October 9, 2013

The City Record

61

Cleveland Foundation
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — establish
Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — Amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Port Control — Lease Agreements — various companies — Use of certain Airport-Owned Space
at Burke Lakefront Airport (O 754-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633

Codified Ordinances
Community Entertainment Districts Defined — Amend Section 699A.011 — Playhouse
Square Community Entertainment District (O 1222-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Donation Boxes — Enact New Chapter 679A, Sections 679A.01 through 679A.06 and
679A.99 (O 976-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
Mobile Vending Permit within the Central Business District — Amend Section(s)
675.01, 675.04, and 675.09 — Enact Section 675.061 (Ward 03) (O 1382-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Communications
Compliance Report — September 2013 Bi-Monthly Report (F 1364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — October 7th Meeting (F 1384-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
Kovacic Recreation Center Roof and Locker Room Improvements — Contract: PI2010000000021 —
Envirocom Construction Inc. (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 1365-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Community Development
Neighborhood Technology Center Program — computer training — Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 02 CRF) (O 1387-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603

Concession Agreements
Food and Beverage Service — Operation at Carl B. Stokes Facility — Utilities Department
(O 1224-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604

Condolences
Johnson-Lipscomb, Carol Jean (R 1392-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
Sledge,Christine Freeman (R 1393-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Congratulations
Cooley Avenue Church of God — 70th Anniversary (R 1396-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Councilman Anthony Brancatelli (Polonia Foundation of Ohio Polish Heritage Award)
(R 1395-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Councilman Jay Westbrook (West Tech Alumni Association honoree) (R 1394-13) . . . . . .
Dickinson, Shamus (R 1390-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DuVernay, Christen (R 1400-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Himschoot, Rev. Malcolm (R 1401-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation (R 1397-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shepherd, Patrick (R 1398-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simmons, Dr. Harry M.D., Ph.D. (R 1399-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1594
1594
1594
1594
1594
1594
1594
1594

Contracts
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, AND Warner Road —
Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept Issue 1 Grant — Schirmer Construction — Emergency repair or replacement
of existing Retaining Wall on Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd. (O 1345-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consent Agreement for the repair of The Tower City Bridge Complex (Ward 03) (O 1100-13) . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. MA 2011-119 with United Rotary Brush — Automotive
Parts and Labor (O 1108-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
IT Capital Strategic Plan — Professional Services — Finance Department (O 1230-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
Kovacic Recreation Center Roof and Locker Room Improvements — Contract: PI2010000000021 —
Envirocom Construction Inc. (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 1365-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Arconas Corporation — Wire Areas with USB Ports and Charging Outlets
(O 702-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Jet Bridges and Appurtenances (O 864-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 6R-24L (Rehab.) — Public Improvement — Professional Services —
Burke Lakefront Airport (O 1107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Windstream Lines for Telecommunication Service Lines needed outside
of Cuyahoga County (O 1240-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1651

. . . . . . . . . . . 1596
. . . . . . . . . . . 1645
. . . . . . . . . . . 1641
. . . . . . . . . . . 1642
. . . . . . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . 1633
. . . . . . . . . . . 1637
. . . . . . . . . . . 1596
. . . . . . . . . . . 1642
. . . . . . . . . . . 1605

The City Record

62

October 9, 2013

Convention Center/Mall B & C
Sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland Foundation — establish Cleveland College
Scholarship Fund — Amend Section 9 Ord. No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597

Cuyahoga County
Family Justice Center — Ontario St., 2025 — lease space — Euclid of Cleveland,
LLC.,(O 1386-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603

Dues
Membership Dues — authorize — NOACA — Finance Department (O 1228-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1643

Easements
Sell Property at Euclid Ave. and East 116th St. to The Cleveland Institute of Art —
right-of-way (O 1111-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642

Economic Development Department
Geis Co., Ameritrust, TIF — Designate Property as Blighted — Amend 871-13 (O 1242-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
TIF — 1717 East 9th LLC, — Public Improvements (O 1241-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605

Fees
Urging State to increase penalties for Prostitution (R 1352-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Finance Department
Convention Center and Malls B and C — sell — Medical Mart — agreement — Cleveland
Foundation — establish Cleveland College Scholarship Fund — Amend Section 9 of Ord.
No. 683-09 (O 1402-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
IT Capital Strategic Plan — Professional Services — Contracts (O 1230-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Membership Dues — Authorize — NOACA (O 1228-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Section 47 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Human
Resources Department (O 1344-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645

Fire Division
Corcoran, Timothy J. — oath of office — Captain — Fire Division — Safety Department
(F 1369-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fogarty, Michael B. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety
Department (F 1370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greene, Kenneth — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department
(F 1371-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holocker, Vincent — Oath of Office — Captain — Fire Division — Safety Department
(F 1372-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McKenna, Jr., John E. — Oath of Office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety
Department (F 1373-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — contracts — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocco, Daniel J. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department
(F 1374-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

Grants
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596
Apply & Accept Issue 1 grant — contract — Schirmer Construction — emergency repair
or replacement of existing retaining wall on Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd.
(O 1345-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645
Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation Program, FY13 — U.S. Department OF Justice —
Contracts — CWRU (O 1235-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, FY 13 — Cuyahoga County — Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) Safety Department (O 1239-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
Community Based Violence Prevention Program, FY 13 — Office of Juvenile Justice
Delinquency Prevention — U.S. Department of Justice (O 1237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605-T
Family Justice Center — Ontario St., 2025 — lease space — Euclid of Cleveland, LLC.,
(O 1386-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603
Port Control and Public Works — Lease Agreements — Board of Park Commissioners
(Metroparks) to exchange land for Skate Park — Construct Riverside Park (O 1233-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1644

1652

October 9, 2013

The City Record

63

State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG), FY 13 — Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium (NOVCC) Program — Kent State University — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
(O 1238-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, FY 13 — Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task
Force (NOLETF) — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1236-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
Steelyard Commons — Amend Ord. 903-07 and Ord. 1362-12 (O 1095-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639

House Bill
Oppose HB 203 “stand your ground” law (R 1381-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604

Human Resources Department
Salary and wage schedules — Section 47 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Finance
Department (O 1344-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645

Lease Agreement
Amend Section 1 of Ord. No. 1070-12 — Burke Development District — Geis Construction Inc.
(O 844-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Port Control — various companies — Use of certain Airport-Owned Space at Burke Lakefront
Airport & CHIA (O 754-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633
Port Control and Public Works — Board of Park Commissioners (Metroparks) to exchange land
for Skate Park — Construct Riverside Park (O 1233-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1644

Leases
Family Justice Center — Ontario St., 2025 — Euclid of Cleveland, LLC., (O 1386-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 6966 (1st fl.,Bsmt., and Unit 1) — objection to issuance (Ward 12) (R 1346-13).
Chester Ave., 2701 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 08) (R 1347-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st St., 4213 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1740-12 (Ward
01) (R 1389-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 10202 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 17) (R 1348-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 14008 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 18) (R 1349-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayfield Rd., 12501 — new application (Ward 06) (F 1368-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 5517 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 1366-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 55 (1st Fl., Bsmt. and Patio) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 1355-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riverside Dr., 5300 — new application (Ward 18) (F 1391-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th St., 1404-06 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 1367-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1604
1627
1627
1594
1594

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
Membership Dues — authorize — Finance Department (O 1228-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1643

Oath Of Office
Corcoran, Timothy J. — Captain — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 1369-13) . . . . . . . .
Fogarty, Michael B. — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 1370-13) . . . . . .
Greene, Kenneth — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 1371-13) . . . . . . . . .
Holocker, Vincent — Captain — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 1372-13) . . . . . . . . . . .
McKenna, Jr., John E. — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 1373-13).
Rocco, Daniel J. — Lieutenant — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 1374-13) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1593
1593
1593
1593
1593
1593

Office Of Equal Opportunity
Compliance Report — September 2013 Bi-Monthly Report (F 1364-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596
Consent Agreement for the repair of The Tower City Bridge Complex (Ward 03) (O 1100-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641
Denison Avenue Underground Ductbank and Resurfacing Project — Amend Ord. 908-12
(O 1096-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Ohio Revised Code
Urging State to expand classifications under Revised Code Section 2927.12, ethnic
intimidation (R 1350-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628
Urging State to increase penalties for Prostitution (R 1352-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

1653

The City Record

64

October 9, 2013

Permits
Donation Boxes — Enact New Chapter 679A, Sections 679A.01 through 679A.06 and
679A.99 (O 976-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
Hispanic Roundtable Community Programs — banner — Lorain Ave. and West 30th St. — Oct.
10 to Oct. 25 — Convencion Hispana 2013 — Capital Projects Office (Ward
03) (O 1380-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603

Port Control Department
Amend Section 1 Of Ord. No. 1070-12 — Burke Development District — Option to Lease
Agreement — Geis Construction Inc. (O 844-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — Arconas Corporation — Wire Areas with USB Ports and Charging Outlets
(O 702-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — Jet Bridges and Appurtenances (O 864-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. MA 2011-119 with United Rotary Brush — Automotive
Parts and Labor (O 1108-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease Agreements — various companies — Use of certain Airport-Owned Space at Burke
Lakefront Airport & CHIA (O 754-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Lease Agreements — Board of Park Commissioners (Metroparks) to exchange
land for Skate Park — Construct Riverside Park (O 1233-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 6R-24L (Rehab.) — Public Improvement Contracts — Professional Services —
Burke Lakefront Airport (O 1107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642

Professional Services
IT Capital Strategic Plan — Contracts — Finance Department (O 1230-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Contracts — Jet Bridges And Appurtenances (O 864-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rescue Net EPCR Suite and Rescue Net Fire RMS — Contracts — Zoll Data Systems — Safety
Department (O 1385-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 6R-24L (Rehab.) — Public Improvement Contracts — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642

Prostitution
Urging State to increase penalties for Prostitution (R 1352-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Public Improvements
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consent Agreement for the repair of The Tower City Bridge Complex (Ward 03) (O 1100-13) .
Denison Avenue Underground Ductbank and Resurfacing Project — Amend Ord. 908-12
(O 1096-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — TIF — 1717 East 9th LLC, (O 1241-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 6R-24L (Rehab.) — Contracts — Professional Services — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1107-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging State of Ohio Issue 1 funds — repair the East 152nd St. Bridge over the Conrail
yard. (Ward 10) (R 1351-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Public Works
Kovacic Recreation Center Roof and Locker Room Improvements — Contract: PI2010000000021 —
Envirocom Construction Inc. (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 1365-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
Port Control — Lease Agreements — Board of Park Commissioners (Metroparks) to exchange
land for Skate Park — Construct Riverside Park (O 1233-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1644

Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell Property At Euclid Ave. and East 116th St. to The Cleveland Institute of Art —
right-of-way easement (O 1111-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642

Resolution of Support
National Messenger Appreciation Day — October 9th (R 1388-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Urging State to expand classifications under Revised Code Section 2927.12, ethnic
intimidation (R 1350-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
National Messenger Appreciation Day — October 9th (R 1388-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Oppose HB 203 “stand your ground” law (R 1381-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Urging State to expand classifications under Revised Code Section 2927.12, ethnic
intimidation (R 1350-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

1654

October 9, 2013

The City Record

65

Safety Department
Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation Program, FY13 — Grant — U.S. Department of Justice —
Contracts — CWRU (O 1235-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, FY 13 — Cuyahoga County — Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) Grant (O 1239-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Based Violence Prevention Program, FY 13 — Office of Juvenile Justice
Delinquency Prevention — Grants- U.S. Department of Justice (O 1237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corcoran, Timothy J. — Oath of Office — Captain — Fire Division (F 1369-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Family Justice Center — Ontario St., 2025 — Lease Space — Euclid Of Cleveland, LLC.,
(O 1386-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fogarty, Michael B. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division (F 1370-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greene, Kenneth — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division (F 1371-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holocker, Vincent — Oath of Office — Captain — Fire Division (F 1372-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McKenna, Jr., John E. — Oath of Office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division (F 1373-13) . . . . . . . . .
Rescue Net EPCR Suite And Rescue Net Fire RMS — Contracts — Zoll Data Systems (O 1385-13)
Rocco, Daniel J. — Oath of Office — Lieutenant — Fire Division (F 1374-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG), FY 13 — Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium (NOVCC) Program — Kent State University — Grants — Ohio Office of
Criminal Justice (O 1238-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, FY 13 — Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task
Force (NOLETF) — Grants — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1236-13) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1603
1593
1593
1593
1593
1596
1593

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — Section 47 — amend Ord. 1689-11, as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 1344-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1645

State of Ohio
Steelyard Commons — Amend Ord. 903-07 and Ord. 1362-12 (O 1095-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
Urging State of Ohio Issue 1 funds — repair the East 152nd St. Bridge over the Conrail
yard, (Ward 10) (R 1351-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Statement of Work Acceptance
Kovacic Recreation Center Roof and Locker Room Improvements — Contract: PI2010000000021 —
Envirocom Construction Inc. (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 1365-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Street Vacation
Brownell Court, S.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 08) (O 1293-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605

Tabled Legislation
Community Based Violence Prevention Program, FY 13 — Office of Juvenile Justice
Delinquency Prevention — Grants- U.S. Department of Justice (O 1237-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605

Utilities Department
Contracts — Windstream Lines for Telecommunication Service Lines needed outside of
Cuyahoga County (O 1240-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
Food and Beverage Service — Operation at Carl B. Stokes Facility (O 1224-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604

Ward 01
East 131st St., 4213 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1740-12 — liquor permit
(R 1389-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — Congratulations (R 1397-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Ward 02
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — Congratulations (R 1397-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
Neighborhood Technology Center Program — computer training — Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward 02 CRF) (O 1387-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603

Ward 03
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
Contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consent Agreement for the repair of The Tower City Bridge Complex (O 1100-13). . . . . . . . . . .
Dickinson, Shamus — Congratulations (R 1390-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Duvernay, Christen — Congratulations (R 1400-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1655

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1596
1641
1594
1594

The City Record

66

October 9, 2013

Economic Development — Geis Co., Ameritrust, TIF — Designate Property as Blighted —
Amend 871-13 (O 1242-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — TIF — 1717 East 9th LLC, — Public Improvements (O 1241-13). .
Himschoot, Rev. Malcolm — Congratulations (R 1401-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hispanic Roundtable Community Programs — banner — Lorain Ave. and West 30th St. —
Oct. 10 to Oct. 25 — Convencion Hispana 2013 — Capital Projects Office (O 1380-13) . . .
Mobile Vending Permit within The Central Business District — Amend Section(s)
675.01, 675.04, and 675.09 — Enact Section 675.061 (O 1382-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Messenger Appreciation Day — October 9th (R 1388-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 55 (1st Fl., Bsmt. and Patio) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor
permit (R 1355-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shepherd, Patrick — Congratulations (R 1398-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simmons, Dr. Harry M.D., Ph.D. — Congratulations (R 1399-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Steelyard Commons — Amend Ord. 903-07 and Ord. 1362-12 (O 1095-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th St., 1404-06 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1367-13) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1629
1594
1594
1639
1594

Ward 06
Mayfield Rd., 12501 — new application — liquor permit (F 1368-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Ward 07
E. 62nd St. south of Grdina Dr. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(O 1379-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1602
Johnson-Lipscomb, Carol Jean — Condolence (R 1392-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Ward 08
Brownell Court, S.E. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 1293-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Ave., 2701 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1347-13)
Oppose HB 203 “stand your ground” law (R 1381-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sledge,Christine Freeman — Condolence (R 1393-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1605
1627
1604
1594

Ward 09
Oppose HB 203 “stand your ground” law (R 1381-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
Sell Property at Euclid Ave. and East 116th St. to The Cleveland Institute of Art —
right-of-way easement (O 1111-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642

Ward 10
Urging State of Ohio Issue 1 funds — repair the East 152nd St. Bridge over the Conrail
yard. (Ward 10) (R 1351-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 6966 (1st Fl.,Bsmt., and Unit 1) — objection to issuance — liquor permit
(R 1346-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
National Messenger Appreciation Day — October 9th (R 1388-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604

Ward 13
Memphis Ave., 5517 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1366-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Ward 14
Accept Issue 1 Grant for rehabilitation of US Route 42, Scranton/Carter, and Warner Road —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 1383-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1596
Denison Avenue Underground Ductbank and Resurfacing Project — Amend Ord. 908-12
(O 1096-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640

Ward 15
Councilman Jay Westbrook (West Tech Alumni Association Honoree) — Congratulations
(R 1394-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave. and West 55th St. (east side) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1375-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Messenger Appreciation Day — October 9th (R 1388-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St. (between Madison Ave. and Lorain Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1377-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St. south of Lorain Ave. — Change Use and Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1378-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St. (between Guthrie Ave. and Colgate Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1376-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1656

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1598

October 9, 2013

The City Record

67

Ward 16
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 99 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 758-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
North & South sides of Madison Ave. (between W. 98 St. & W. 85 St.) — Change Use, Area
and Height District — City Planning Commission (O 408-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

Ward 17
Cooley Avenue Church of God — 70th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1396-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
Lorain Ave., 10202 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1348-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

Ward 18
Councilman Anthony Brancatelli (Polonia Foundation of Ohio Polish Heritage Award) —
Congratulations (R 1395-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Councilman Jay Westbrook (West Tech Alumni Association honoree) — Congratulations
(R 1394-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 14008 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1349-13) . . . . . .
Riverside Dr., 5300 — new application — liquor permit (F 1391-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Ward 19
Lorain Ave. and W. 147th St. — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 810-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

Zoning
Community Entertainment Districts Defined — Amend Section 699A.011 — Playhouse
Square Community Entertainment District (O 1222-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave. and West 55th St. (east side) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1375-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 62nd St. South of Grdina Dr. — Change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(Ward 07) (O 1379-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. and W. 147th St. — Change Use, Area and Height Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 19) (O 810-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave. (between Berea Rd. and W. 99 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 758-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & South sides of Madison Ave. (between W. 98 St. & W. 85 St.) — Change Use, Area
and Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 408-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St. (between Madison Ave. and Lorain Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (O 1377-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St. south of Lorain Ave. — Change Use and Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (O 1378-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St. (between Guthrie Ave. and Colgate Ave.) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (O 1376-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1657

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1636
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1629
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1598

