The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Twenty-Fourth, Two Thousand and Seven

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
32
32
34
34
35
35
35
35
36
36
36

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Tracy Y. Martin, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
______________, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Brian A. Reilly, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – India Pierce Lee, Chair;
Laura M. Noble, Vice Chair; Robert Brown, Thomas Coffey, Jennifer Coleman, Lee,
Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, Ari Maron, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe
Cimperman, Robert Jackimowicz; Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael Ryan
12A
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Joan Synenberg
13C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2007

Vol. 94

No. 4859

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2007
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Britt, Cleveland, Dolan, Turner.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

Address all communications to

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services
Committee:
Britt,
Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Kelley,
Reed,
Santiago,
Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Dolan, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and
Economic Development Committee:
Pierce Scott, Chair; Brancatelli,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Cimperman,
Cummins, Coats, Lewis, Westbrook.
Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Church, located at 17403 Nottingham
Road, located in Ward 11. Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Santiago, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Cummins.
COMMUNICATIONS

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Dolan,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Dolan,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.

File No. 96-07.
From the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency — hearing regarding
Cuyahoga County Construction Project. Received.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Sweeney, Chair; Britt, Kelley,
Pierce Scott, Santiago, Westbrook,
White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

File No. 98-07.
From the Cuyahoga County Commissioners — copy of resolution
appointing Robert Klaiber, Jr. to the
Towpath
Trail
Tax
Increment
Financing Advisory Committee. Received.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 22, 2007
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats,
Conwell,
Cummins,
Johnson, Kelley, Lewis, Polensek,
Reed, Santiago, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and
Zone.
Also present were Frank G. Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of Staff;
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Government Affairs; Tracy Y. Martin, Chief
of Education; Maureen Harper, Chief
of Communications; Debra Linn Talley, Director of Equal Opportunity;
Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Smith,
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Rybka, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman, Griffin and Brown.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Pastor Walther Mercis of St. Johns Lutheran

55

File No. 97-07.
From the Clear Channel Outdoor
— contact information for all billboards. Received.

File No. 99-07.
From the First Interstate Properties, LTD. re: Recorded — Environmental Covenant for NFA Letter No.
06NFA247. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 100-07.
Re: New Application — 8446029 —
Alessandro Spremulli, d.b.a. Spremulli Brothers Auto SVC, 15002 Puritas Avenue. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 101-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 9328439 — Waber Bar, Inc.,
d.b.a. Hunan Gourmet Restaurant &
Bar, first floor, 3614 Euclid Avenue.
(Ward 7). Received.
File No. 102-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5248922 — Local Heroes
Bar & Grill, LLC, 2217 East 9th
Street, first floor and patio. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 103-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8370208 — Sophia 100,
Inc., d.b.a. Sophia Food Market,
10017 Sophia Avenue. (Ward 4). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 104-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5433601 — Mahadev Trading Co., d.b.a. Boarding House Deli
& Carryout, 11313 Euclid Avenue.
(Ward 9). Received.
File No. 105-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 72736420005 — Rego’s
Fresh Market, Inc., 17400 Lorain
Avenue. (Ward 21). Received.
File No. 106-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1883154 — D. & S. Sales,
Inc., d.b.a. Normandy Tavern, 13999
Lorain Avenue, first floor and basement. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 107-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 7638464 —
Dennis T. Rzyczycki, d.b.a. River
Market, 19609 Puritas Road, 103.
(Ward 20). Received.
File No. 108-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 0997345 —
Brother’s
Lounge
LLC,
d.b.a.
Brother’s Lounge, 11609 Detroit Avenue. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 109-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 9115333 —
2700 West 25th Street, Inc., d.b.a. Sun
Valley Beverage, 2700 West 25th
Street, Unit B & C. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 110-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 4678478 — Kishen, Inc.,
d.b.a. Stop N Save, 13501-05 Lakewood Heights Boulevard. (Ward 19).
Received.
File No. 111-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 05759710005
— Behjat, LLC, d.b.a. D. & B.S. Beverage & Deli, 12702 Lorain Avenue.
(Ward 19). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 112-07—Elizabeth Cholewa.
Res. No. 113-07—Reid M. Robbins.
Res. No. 114-07 — Mary Lee Edwards.
Res. No. 115-07 — Donna M. (Dewenth) Baird.
Res. No. 116-07 — Cecil H. “Chip”
Winters.
Res. No. 118-07—Wylie Miller, Jr.
Res. No. 119-07 — Anna Marie
Fletcher.
Res. No. 120-07—Gladys Clayton.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 121-07—Joseph Meyers.
Res. No. 122-07—Linda Steffen.

Res. No. 123-07—Harvey Franklin
Frazier.
Res. No. 124-07 — Neighborhood
Housing Services of Greater Cleveland.
Res. No. 125-07—Shiloh Temple of
Faith, Inc.
Res. No. 126-07—Elvin & Georgia
Murphy.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 127-07—Cleveland Saves.
Res. No. 128-07—Deacon Charles
Lee, Sr.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 117-07 — Lynnhaven Development Group.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 53-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor, or his designee, to
apply on behalf of the City of Cleveland, for membership in the Northeast Ohio Sourcing Office, to adopt
the Code of Regulations of, and to
enter into a Membership Agreement,
Master
Services
and
Consulting
Agreement, and Master Products
Agreement with the Northeast Ohio
Sourcing Office.
Whereas, certain municipal corporations and other political subdivisions located in Ashtabula, Columbiana, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake,
Lorain, Mahoning, Medina, Portage,
Stark, Summit, Trumbull, and Wayne
counties, Ohio, as members (“Members”), have formed The Northeast
Ohio Sourcing Office (“NEOSO”), an
Ohio nonprofit corporation organized as a regional council of governments under Chapter 167, Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, NEOSO is organized for
the purposes of (i) providing consulting and management to its Members, (ii) developing and implementing
certain
sound
business
practices and processes as shared
services to be made available to the
Members, and (iii) developing and
operating as a collective goods and
services purchasing and services
organization to enable its Members
to obtain competitive terms from
vendors and service providers by
utilizing the combined purchasing
power and leverage of all of NEOSO’s
Members; and
Whereas, to participate in NEOSO,
a political subdivision must become
a Member by (i) executing a Membership Agreement with NEOSO, and
(ii) satisfying the qualifications and
conditions of, and adopting, NEOSO’s
Code of Regulations; and

56

January 24, 2007
Whereas, to purchase services
made available by NEOSO from service
providers,
the
Membership
Agreement requires NEOSO and the
Member to enter into a Master Services and Consulting Agreement,
setting forth the terms and conditions under which services will be
provided for the political subdivision; and
Whereas, to purchase products
made available by NEOSO from vendors, the Membership Agreement
requires NEOSO and the Member to
enter into a Master Products Agreement setting forth the terms and
conditions under which the political
subdivision may acquire products
through NEOSO. The Membership
Agreement, the Master Services and
Consulting Agreement, and the Master Products Agreement are collectively referred to as the “Agreements”; and
Whereas, the City’s collective purchase of products and services as a
Member of NEOSO will conserve and
protect the City’s funds; and
Whereas, it is in the best interest
of the City and its citizens for the
City to become a Member of NEOSO
and to enter into the Agreements
necessary to participate in the collective purchasing and service programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to apply, on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, for membership in
NEOSO, to enter into the Membership Agreement, and to participate
in NEOSO.
Section 2. That the Code of Regulations, substantially in the form
placed in File No. 53-07-A, as amended from time to time, as the Code of
Regulations of NEOSO, is approved
and ratified.
Section 3. That the Mayor, or his
designee, is authorized to enter into
a Master Services and Consulting
Agreement, as amended from time
to time, with NEOSO, and to consider all available contracts under
which it is economically advantageous for the City to acquire the
products, are placed in the above
mentioned file.
Section 4. That the Mayor, or his
designee, is authorized to enter into
a Master Products Agreement, as
amended from time to time, with
NEOSO, and to consider all available
contracts under which it is economically advantageous for the City to
acquire the services.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

January 24, 2007
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 54-07.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
T & G Flying Club, Inc. for the
lease of office space at Cleveland
Burke Lakefront Airport for flight
training and to provide related services, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with T & G Flying Club, Inc.
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy of
approximately 500 square feet of
office space in the terminal building
at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport
(“Leased
Premises”)
which
space has been determined to be not
needed for public use for the term
of the Lease. The Leased Premises
shall be used for the operation of a
flight training facility and to provide related services to serve the air
traveling public and patrons at
Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport.
The term of the Lease shall be for
a two year period, commencing on
the effective date of the Lease. For
use of the Leased Premises, Lessee
shall pay the City an annual rent to
be determined based on the actual
square foot of the Leased Premises
and based on the fair market value
rental of $12.50 per square foot. The
rent shall be paid in monthly installments due on the first day of each
month during the term of the Lease.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 55-07.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Board of County Commissioners
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio for the

The City Record
rehabilitation of Bellaire Road from
West 117th Street to West 105th
Street; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into any relative agreements; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement of rehabilitating a portion of Bellaire Road; authorizing
the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and to
apply for and accept an allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Board of County Commissioners (the “County”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the County: rehabilitating Bellaire Road from West
117th Street to West 105th Street
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the County in the
cost of the Improvement to the
extent of funds received by an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle $5.00 License Tax Fund; and by
applying to the Board of County
Commissioners to use the License
Tax Fund for the Improvement. If
funds administered by the Ohio
Public Works Commission are used
for the Improvement, the amount of
the funds will be deducted from
designated projects costs prior to
the application of the following
participatory percentages. Within
the corporate limits of the City, the
City shall contribute fifty percent
(50%) of the cost of construction
determined to be eligible by the
Cuyahoga County Engineer’s policies. However, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the
construction contract, at the request of the City, which are determined by the County as not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County necessary to complete
the planning and construction of
the Improvement, which agreements
shall contain terms and conditions
that the Director of Law determines
shall best protect the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a man-

57

5
ner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside stands, or other private installations within the limits of the
right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual
of
Uniform
Traffic
Control
Devices under the provisions of Section 4511.11 and related sections of
the Revised Code;
(e) Follow and maintain post-construction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency; and
(f) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a
part of the Improvement under Section 4511.66 of the Revised Code,
unless otherwise controlled by City
ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the
Improvement
the
City
will
arrange for its acquisition.
(c) That the County shall continue to maintain the structural elements of any bridge (defined as a
structure with a span of twenty (20)
feet or greater) within the limits of
the Improvement under applicable
sections of the Revised Code.
(d) That the street within the limits of the Improvement is designated a through highway within the
meaning of division (F) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code.
(e) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make
any
and
all
necessary
rearrangements in such manner as
to be clear of any construction
called for by the plans for the
Improvement. That the companies
have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City or the County.
(f) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers, or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not
comply with the provisions of ODOT
Directive No. 28-A, whether inside or
outside the corporate limits of the
City, as may be necessary to conform to the Improvement.
(g) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of
governmentally-owned utility facilities which come within the provisions of ODOT Directive No. 28-A
to the same extent that it participates in the other costs of the
Improvement, provided that such
participation will not extend to
additions or betterments of existing facilities.

6
(h) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made
necessary
by
utility
rearrangement shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
(i) If applicable, that stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
any street within the limits of the
Improvement shall be removed and
no stop signs will be erected except at intersections with another
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the aforesaid manual
(name the manual) are met.
(j) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded.
Section
6.
That
this
Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the County
concerning the financing of the
Improvement,
which
agreement
shall
contain
without
limitation
terms substantially similar to the
following:
(a) That the City will arrange for
the
preparation
of
construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, which shall
conform to generally accepted engineering practices and principles.
(b) That the City will arrange for
the supervision and administration
of the construction contract for the
Improvement, and will review the
construction plans for conformance
with division (a) of this section, and
make an inspection of the completed project.
(c) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement, sidewalks, alternate bid items
or other items that are in addition
to those now existing in the plans
for the Improvement and not provided for elsewhere in the agreement, the County will do so, provided that the construction of the additional items are approved by the
County and the City, and provided
further that the City agrees to pay
or cause to be paid the cost of the
additional construction and of preliminary and design engineering,
but the City shall not be responsible for the cost of supervision of the
additional construction.
(d) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost
of the Improvement by an allocation

The City Record
from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the Improvement.
(e) That if the Improvement is
financed as a Federal-aid project,
eligible costs of the Improvement
shall be financed from the funds.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
to the County for an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund to pay the County portion
of the Improvement, and to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County as are necessary to
finance the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
to the County for approval to use
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
funds to pay for the Improvement,
to accept the funds and to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the Improvement, for the
Department of Public Service, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 12. That the costs of the
contracts and property acquisition
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
364, 20 SF 373, 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383,
20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, the
cash match identified in Ordinance
No. 608-06, passed June 12, 2006, from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under Ordinance No. 608-06, passed
June 12, 2006, from the fund or funds
to which are credited the proceeds
of any bonds issued for this purpose,
and from any other funds deemed
appropriate
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 166674)
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

58

January 24, 2007
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 56-07.
By Council Members White, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the State of Ohio for the replacement of the wearing surface on the
Broadway Avenue Bridge over the
Norfolk Southern Railroad at East
93rd Street; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to enter into any
relative agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio (“the
State”) to construct the following
improvement under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the
State: replacing the wearing surface
on the Broadway Avenue Bridge
over the Norfolk Southern Railroad
at East 93rd Street (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City gives its
consent to the Improvement and its
administration by the State, provided that this ordinance shall not be
construed to impose any financial
obligation on the City for the
Improvement. However, the City
agrees to assume and contribute
100% of the cost of any items included in the construction contract, at
the request of the City, which are
determined by the State not eligible
or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the State necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
Improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain terms and conditions
that the Director of Law determines
shall best protect the public interest.
Section 4. That the City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, in accordance with current
State and Federal regulations, all
necessary right-of-way required for
the described Project. The City also
understands that right-of-way costs
include eligible utility costs. The
City agrees to be responsible for all
utility accommodation, relocation,
and reimbursement and agrees that
all such accommodations, relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall
comply with the current provisions
of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT Utilities Manual. The City shall maintain

January 24, 2007
the right-of-way and keep it free of
obstructions, and hold the right-ofway inviolate for public highway
purposes.
Section 5. That this Council requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 6. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the State three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 57-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 2197-05,
passed January 22, 2006; to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Section 6; and to renumber existing
Sections 6, 7, and 8 to new Sections
7, 8, and 9; relating to a grant from
Invest in Children for the MomsFirst
and Help Me Grow Partnership Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 2197-05, passed January
22, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Invest in Children for the MomsFirst
and Help Me Grow Partnership Program; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement contracts
of materials, equipment, and supplies needed to implement the grant;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more agreements
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to provide services to
implement the grant.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 2197-05, passed January 22, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 219705, passed January 22, 2006, is supplemented by adding new Section 6
to read as follows:
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
various agencies, entities, or individuals to provide services necessary to implement the grant, includ-

The City Record
ing but not limited to, outreach, case
management, interconceptional care,
health education, and depression
screening.
Section 4. That existing Sections
6, 7, and 8 of Ordinance No. 2197-05,
passed January 22, 2006, are renumbered to new “Section 7”, “Section 8”
and “Section 9”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 58-07.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with The Cleveland
Wire Cloth & Manufacturing Company to provide for a 10-year, sixty
percent tax abatement for certain
tangible,
real
property
improvements, located at 3573 East 78th
Street in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area, which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics described in division (A) of Section 5709.61
of the Revised Code and certified
the area as an “Urban Jobs and
Enterprise Zone” under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code; and
Whereas,
The
Cleveland
Wire
Cloth & Manufacturing Company
(the “Enterprise”) has proposed to
make real property improvements
located at 3573 East 78th Street, in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone;
and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be
at a competitive disadvantage operating at this location if taxes on certain tangible real property improvements were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the

59

7
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council approves the application of the Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives
on the basis that the Enterprise is
qualified by financial responsibility
and business experience to create
and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and to improve the economic climate of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a 10-year, sixty percent (60%) tax abatement for certain tangible real property improvements; the abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall be in accordance
with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 58-07-A. These
terms shall not be amended, nor
shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferable to any entity,
without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section
6.
That
any
contract
authorized by this legislation must
require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts. The identification process
shall place special emphasis on the
hard to employ, including people
who are disabled and people who
have been convicted of or who have
pled guilty to a criminal offense
which is unrelated to the duties of
the job opportunity.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record

8

January 24, 2007

Ord. No. 59-07.
By Council Members Cimperman and Zone.
An emergency ordinance establishing the Ohio City Historic District (Map Change No. 2208, Sheet No. 1) and
Repealing Ordinance No. 708-04 Passed May 17, 2004 and Ordinance No. 74-05 Passed March 21, 2005.
Whereas,

the

Cleveland

Landmarks

Commission

(the

“Commission”)

under

Chapter

161

of

the

Codified

Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the designation of the Ohio City Historic District as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council adopted Ordinance 708-04 on May 17, 2004, establishing the Ohio City Historic
District; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council adopted Ordinance 74-05 on March 21, 2005, establishing the Ohio City
Historic District; and
Whereas, the Commission has proposed the expansion of the boundaries of the Ohio City Historic District;
and
Whereas, the Commission has determined that the character, interest, and value of the proposed Ohio City
Historic District is part of the development, heritage, and cultural characteristics of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Ohio City Historic District is identified with persons who significantly contributed to
the culture and development of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Ohio City Historic District exemplifies the cultural, economic, social, and historic heritage
of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Ohio City Historic District is identified with the work of architects and master builders
whose individual work has influenced the development of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the owners of the properties within the boundaries of the proposed Ohio City Historic District have
been properly notified under Section 161.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976; and
Whereas, a public hearing under Chapter 161.04 (b) subsections (2) and (3) was held on October 26, 2006 to
discuss the proposed expansion of the Ohio City Historic District; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Ohio City Historic District as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary
to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following area, outlined on the attached map is designated the Ohio City Historic District:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio and known as being a part of the
Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49, 50, 51, 52, 69, and 70 described as follows:
Beginning

at

the

intersection

of

the

centerlines

of

West

28th

Street

and

Bridge

Avenue

N.W.;

thence

Northeasterly along the centerline of Bridge Avenue N.W. and its Northeasterly prolongation to the centerline
of the Cuyahoga River; thence Northwesterly and Northerly along the centerline of said river to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the centerline of West 24th Street; thence Northwesterly along the
Southeasterly prolongation and along the centerline of West 24th Street, to its intersection with the centerline
of Washington Avenue N.W.; thence Southwesterly along the centerline of Washington Avenue N.W. to its
intersection with the Southerly right-of-way line of the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway, N.W.; thence Southwesterly along said right-of-way to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the centerline of West
32nd Street; thence Southeasterly along the Northerly prolongation and along the centerline of West 32nd Street
to its intersection with the Northeasterly prolongation of the most Southerly Line of Parcel “A” as shown by
the Recorded Plat in Volume 311, Page 50 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Southwesterly, Northwesterly,
and Southwesterly along said Northeasterly prolongation and Southerly Line of Parcel “A” and its Southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the Centerline of West 33rd Street (16 feet wide); thence Northwesterly along said Centerline of West 33rd Street to its intersection with the Centerline of Wheat Court to
its intersection with the centerline of West 38th Street (66 feet wide); thence continuing Southwesterly along
the centerline of Wheat Court (16.5 feet wide) to its intersection with the Centerline of West 45th Street (60
feet wide); thence continuing Southwesterly along said Centerline of Wheat Court to its intersection with the
Centerline of West 48th Street (60 feet wide); thence Northerly along said Centerline of West 48th Street to
its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly Line of a Parcel of Land conveyed to Aga Gas
Inc. by Deed Dated Dec. 24, 2002 and recorded in AFN 2002-12240415 of Cuyahoga County Records, also known
as PPN 002-14-002; thence Westerly, Northerly, and Westerly along said Easterly prolongation and Northerly
Line of PPN 002-14-002 to its intersection with the Easterly Line of Parcel “A” as shown by the Recorded Lot
Consolidation Plat in Volume 272, Page 33 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Southerly along said Easterly Line of Parcel ”A” to the Southeasterly Corner thereof; thence Westerly, Southerly, and Westerly along the
Southerly Line of said Parcel “A” to its Intersection with the Westerly Line of Jacob Perkins Allotment as
shown by the Recorded Plat in Volume 1, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Southerly along said
Westerly Line of Jacob Perkins Allotment to its intersection with the most Northerly Line of a Parcel of Land
conveyed to Mark M. Bouguerra by Deed Dated Dec. 8, 2003 and recorded in AFN 200312080687 of Cuyahoga
County Records, also known as PPN 002-14-047; thence Westerly, Southerly, and Westerly along said Norther-

60

January 24, 2007

The City Record

9

ly Line of PPN 002-14-047 to the Northeast Corner of a Parcel of Land conveyed to Edward Raffel by Deed
Dated Jan. 9, 1992 and recorded in AFN 00192752 of Cuyahoga County Records, also known as PPN 002-14-046;
thence Westerly along the Northerly Line and its Westerly prolongation of said PPN 002-14-047 to its intersection with the Centerline of West 50th Street (50 feet wide); thence Southerly along said Centerline of West
50th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of Sublot number 128 in
said Baldwin Subdivision; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of said Sublot
number 128 to its intersection with the Easterly line of Sublot number 8 in the C.W. Schmidt Allotment as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 page 36 of Cuyahoga County records; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of Sublot number 8 in said allotment to the Southeast corner thereof; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot number 8 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
West 52nd Street; thence Southerly along the centerline of said West 52nd Street to its intersection with the
Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot number 16 in the C.W. Schmidt allotment as aforesaid;
thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Southerly line of said Sublot number 16 to the Westerly line of Sublot number 118 in the Dudley Baldwin Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2
page 51 of Cuyahoga County records; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of Sublot numbers 118 and 119
in said Subdivision to the Northwest corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said Sublot
number 119 and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 50th Street; thence
Northerly along the centerline of said West 50th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Wales Court;
thence in a general Easterly direction along the centerline of said Wales Court and passing through West
49th Place, West 48th Street, West 48th Place, West 47th Street and West 46th Place to its intersection with
the centerline of West 45th Street; thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 45th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot number 1 in the Dudley Baldwin Subdivision as aforesaid; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Northerly line of said Sublot number 1 to the Westerly line of Original Brooklyn Township Lot number 52; thence Southerly along said Original Lot number 52 to the Southerly line of Sublot number 929 in the Barber & Lord Subdivision as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 11 page 26 of Cuyahoga County records; thence Easterly along the Southerly line
of said Sublot 929 and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 44th Street;
thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 44th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Fulton Court, N.W.; thence Northeasterly along the centerline of said Fulton Court, N. W., to its intersection with
the centerline of West 42nd Place; thence Southeasterly along the centerline of said West 42nd Place to its
intersection with the centerline of Cyrano Court, N.W.; thence Easterly along the centerline of said Cyrano
Court, N.W., to its intersection with the centerline of Randall Road, N.W.; thence Southerly along the centerline
of said Randall Road, N.W., to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Donald A. and Rose M. Straw by deed dated October 1, 1996 and recorded in AFN
00348567 of Cuyahoga County Records and also known as PPN 003-35-076; thence Northeasterly along the
Westerly prolongation and Southerly line of said parcel conveyed to Donald A. and Rose M. Straw to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Northwesterly along the Easterly line of said parcel and the Easterly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to Roger S. Zonal by deed recorded in AFN 200310301018 on Oct. 30, 2003 and known
as PPN 003-35-077 and its Northerly prolongation to the centerline of Fulton Court, N.W., as aforesaid; thence
Northeasterly along the centerline of said Fulton Court, N.W., to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of land conveyed to Charles A. Fridrich by deed recorded in AFN 00050942 on July
10, 1995 and also known as PPN 003-35-049; thence Southeasterly along the Northerly prolongation and Westerly line of said Fridrich parcel to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Northeasterly along the Southerly line of said Fridrich parcel and its Easterly prolongation to the centerline of Fulton Place, N. W. (16 feet
wide); thence Southeasterly along the centerline of said Fulton Place, N.W., to its intersection with the centerline of an unnamed 12 foot alley about 125 feet North of Lorain Avenue; thence Northeasterly along the
centerline of said unnamed alley to the Westerly line of Library Park also known as PPN 003-36-066; thence
Northwesterly along the Westerly line of said Library Park and its Northerly prolongation to the centerline
of Fulton Court, N.W., as aforesaid; thence Northeasterly along the centerline of said Fulton Court, N.W., to
its intersection with the centerline of West 38th Street; thence Southeasterly along the centerline of West 38th
Street to its intersection with the centerline of Fulton Road, N.W.; thence Northeasterly along the centerline
of said Fulton Road, N.W., to its intersection with the centerline of Penn Court, N.W.; thence Southeasterly
and Easterly along the centerline of said Penn Court, N.W., to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly line of property conveyed to St. Ignatius High School by Deed dated June 29, 1999 and
recorded in AFN 00758473 of Cuyahoga County and also known as PPN 003-37-047; thence Northwesterly along
the Southerly prolongation and the Easterly line of said property and its Northwesterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Carroll Avenue, N.W. (50 feet wide); thence Northeasterly along the centerline of said Carroll Avenue, N.W., to its intersection with the southeasterly extension of West 29th Place;
thence northwesterly along said southeasterly extension and along said centerline of West 29th Place and
along its northwesterly extension to the centerline of Carroll Court, N.W.; thence northeasterly along said centerline of Carroll Court, N.W., to its intersection with the centerline of West 28th Street (66 feet wide); thence
Northwesterly along the centerline of said West 28th Street to the centerline of Bridge Avenue, N.W., and the
place of beginning.

61

The City Record

10

January 24, 2007

Section 2. That the Ohio City Historic District, which in its entirety is a property having special character or
special historical or aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 3. That the designation of the area described above as the Ohio City Historic District shall be noted
on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the
appropriate person designated for that purpose by the City Planning Commission. Further, a copy of the map
attached shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Cleveland Landmarks Commission. Ordinance
No. 708-04, passed May 17, 2004, and Ordinance No. 74-05, passed March 21, 2005, are repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure, and provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

62

January 24, 2007

The City Record

11

Ord. No. 60-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance establishing the Gordon Square Historic District (Map Change No. 2207, Sheet No. 1).
Whereas, the Cleveland Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the designation of the Gordon Square Historic District as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has determined that the character, interest, and value of the proposed Gordon Square
Historic District is part of the development, heritage, and cultural characteristics of the city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Gordon Square Historic District is identified with persons who significantly contributed
to the culture and development of the city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Gordon Square Historic District exemplifies the cultural, economic, social, and historic
heritage of the city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the proposed Gordon Square Historic District is identified with the work of architects and master
builders whose individual work has influenced the development of the city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the owners of the properties within the boundaries of the proposed Gordon Square Historic District have
been properly notified in accordance with Section 161.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976; and
Whereas, public hearings pursuant to Chapter 161.04 (b) subsections (2) and (3) were held on December 1 and
December 8, 2005 to discuss the proposed expansion of the Gordon Square Historic District; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Gordon Square Historic District as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary
to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following area, outlined on the map attached hereto is hereby designated the Gordon Square
Historic District:
Beginning on the centerline of Detroit Avenue (66 feet wide) at its intersection with the centerline of West 45th
Street; thence Northerly along the centerline of West 45th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Tillman
Avenue (66 ft. wide); thence Westerly along the centerline of Tillman Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 49th Street (66 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of West 49th Street to its intersection
with the Easterly prolongation of the Southern line of a parcel of land conveyed to Pierre Chelala on May 2, 1996
as shown by AFN 40010001 of Cuyahoga County Records and also known as Permanent Parcel Number 003-10-095
thence Westerly along said prolongation and Southerly line to the Southeasterly corner thereof thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of said Chelala parcel to the Southerly line of Sublot number 175 in the S.S. Stone allotment as shown in volume 43, page 721 of Cuyahoga County records; thence Westerly along the Southerly lines of
Sublot numbers 175 through 181 in said Subdivision to the Southeasterly corner of Sublot 182 in said S.S. Stone allotment; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot 182 to its intersection with the centerline of Tillman
Avenue as aforesaid; thence Westerly along said centerline of Tillman Avenue to its intersection with the prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot 185 in said S.S. Stone allotment; thence Southerly along the prolongation and
the Easterly line of said Sublot 185 to the Southeast corner thereof, thence Westerly along the Southerly line of
Sublot numbers 185 through 189 both inclusive in said S.S. Stone allotment to the Easterly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to Christopher G. Shimp by deed recorded in AFN 12190125 of Cuyahoga County Records on December 19,
2002 and also known as PPN 003-10-076; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said Shimp parcel to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said parcel and its Westerly prolongation to
the centerline of West 54th Street (66 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 54th Street to
the centerline of Tillman Avenue as aforesaid; thence Westerly along the centerline of said Tillman Avenue to the
Northerly prolongation of Easterly line of Sublot number 370 in the S.S. Stone Allotment as aforesaid; thence Southerly along said prolongation and Easterly line of sublot 370 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along
the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 370 through 377 both inclusive in said S.S. Stone allotment to the Easterly line
of Sublot number 378 in the aforesaid S.S. Stone allotment thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot
number 378 and its Northerly prolongation to the centerline of Tillman Avenue as aforesaid; thence Westerly along
the centerline of said Tillman Avenue to the Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot number 380 in
the aforesaid S.S. Stone Allotment; thence Southerly along the Northerly prolongation at the Easterly line of said
Sublot 380 in the aforesaid S.S. Stone Allotment, to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot 380 and its Westerly prolongation to the centerline of West 58th Street (66 ft. wide);
thence Southerly along the centerline of said West 58th Street to the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of
Sublot number 307 in the Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision as shown in Volume 25, page 19 of the Cuyahoga County
Map records; thence Westerly along the prolongation and Southerly line of said Sublot 307 to the Easterly line of
Sublot number 241 in the Jacob Perkins Subdivision as aforesaid; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said
Sublot 241 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said Sublot 241 to the
Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Six – b Management Corp. by deed recorded in AFN 425650007 on
March 16, 1994 and also known as PPN 002-12-066; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said PPN 002-12-066
to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-12-066 and its Westerly prolongation to the centerline of West 59th Street (56 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of said
West 59th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of land conveyed to Patricia A. Collins by deed recorded in AFN 213050036 on Dec. 11, 1992 and being also known as PPN 002-12-067; thence
Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of PPN 002-12-067 and along the Southerly line of Sublot
number 166 in the Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision as aforesaid to its intersection with the Easterly line of land conveyed to Martin D. Smith by deed recorded in AFN 12070857 on December 7, 2005 and being also known as PPN
002-12-118; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said PPN 002-12-118 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-12-118 and its Westerly prolongation to the centerline of West
61st Street (56 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of West 61st Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of land conveyed to Randy L. Hayne by deed recorded in AFN 37270044 on
June 27, 1990 and being also known as PPN 002-12-099; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of said PPN 002-12-099 to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said
PPN 002-12-099 to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of Sublot number 87 in the
Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision as aforesaid; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and the Southerly line

63

12

The City Record

January 24, 2007

of said Sublot 87 to its intersection with the Easterly line of land conveyed to James C. Jacobs by deed recorded
in AFN 9271238 on Sept. 27, 2002 and being also known as PPN 002-12-019; thence Southerly along the Easterly line
of said PPN 002-12-019 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said PPN
002-12-019 and its Westerly prolongation to the centerline of West 64th Street (56 ft. wide); thence Southerly along
the centerline of said West 64th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of
Sublot number 82 in the Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision as aforesaid; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of Sublot number 82 and Sublot number 4 in said Perkins Subdivision to a point; said point
being 72.36 feet Easterly from the Easterly line of West 65th Street (66 ft. wide) said point being also known as
the Westerly line of PPN 002-09-027; thence Southerly along said Westerly line of PPN 002-09-027 to its intersection
with the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Clarence Issenman, Bishop of Cleveland by deed recorded
in AFN 142010811 on Dec. 19, 1975 and being also known as PPN 002-09-072; thence Westerly along the Southerly
line of said PPN 002-09-072 and its Westerly prolongation to the centerline of West 65th Street as aforesaid; thence
Northerly along the centerline of said West 65th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Alger Court (16 ft.
wide) Vacated by the Council of the City of Cleveland by Ordinance number 2278-64 dated Nov. 16, 1964; thence
Westerly along the centerline of said Alger Court to its intersection with the centerline of West 67th Street (40 ft.
wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of said West 67th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Larry Caringi by deed recorded in AFN 549000027 on
Aug. 29, 1985 and being also known as PPN 002-09-023; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Northerly line of said PPN 002-09-023 to the Easterly line of a parcel of Land conveyed to Detroit - Shoreway Community
Development Organization as shown by deed recorded in AFN 92300563 on Sept. 23, 2005 and being also known as
PPN 002-09-022; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said PPN 002-09-022 to the Northeasterly corner thereof;
thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-09-022 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-09-022 to the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Gheorghe
and Maria Bera by deed recorded in AFN 208850059 on Feb. 7, 1992 and being also known as PPN 002-09-019; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-09-019 to the centerline of West 69th Street (30 ft. wide); thence
Southerly along the centerline of said West 69th Street to the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the Joseph Isabella Trust as shown by deed recorded in AFN 11020513 on Nov. 2, 2005 and
being also known as PPN 002-07-011; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of said
PPN 002-07-011 to the Easterly line of land conveyed to Edward F. Hoban, Bishop of Cleveland as shown by deed
recorded in volume 6501 page 158 of Cuyahoga County deed records and being also known as PPN 002-07-010; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of said PPN 002-07-010 to the Northeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along
the Northerly line of said PPN 002-07-010 to the centerline of West 70th Street (60 ft. wide); thence Southerly along
the centerline of said West 70th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to John O’Donnell by deed recorded in AFN 135440040 on Dec. 30. 1997 and being also known
as PPN 002-07-047; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and the irregular Southerly line of said PPN
002-07-047 to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-07-047 to
the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Darrell Martin by deed recorded in AFN 7130676 on July 13, 2005
and being also known as PPN 002-07-004; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-07-004 to the centerline of West 73rd Street (50 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of said West 73rd Street to the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Sam Crookshanks by deed recorded in Auditors File Number 483 on Sept. 20, 1999 and being also known as PPN 002-05-029; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-05-029 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said
PPN 002-05-029 to the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the Detroit – Shoreway Community Development Organization as shown by the deed recorded in AFN 1260696 on Jan. 26, 2006 and being also known as PPN
002-05-117; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-05-117 to the centerline of West 74th Street
(width varies); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 74th Street to the Easterly prolongation of the
Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Jack E. Schultz by deed recorded in AFN 6150777 on June 15, 2001
and being also known as PPN 002-05-047; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and the Southerly line
of said PPN 002-05-047 to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN
002-05-047 to the Southerly line of Sublot number 7 in the Taft, Smith, Marshall & Wagner Allotment as shown in
Volume 9, page 14 of the Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 7,6,5, and 4 to the Easterly line of land conveyed to John Andruska by deed recorded in AFN 999999999 on
November 27, 2002 and being also known as PPN 002-05-022; thence Southerly along said Easterly line of said PPN
002-05-022 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-05-022 to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-05-022 to the Southerly line
of Sublot number 14 in the W.J. Gordon Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 17, page 9 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said Sublot number 14 to the centerline of
West 76th Street (50 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 76th Street to the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of Sublot number 128 in the W.J. Gordon Allotment as aforesaid; thence Westerly
along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of said Sublot number 128 to the Easterly line of Sublot number 132 in said W.J. Gordon Allotment; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot 132 to the Southerly line of Sublot number 133 in the aforesaid W.J. Gordon Allotment; thence Easterly along said Sublot 133 to the
Southeast corner; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said sublot 133 to the Northeasterly corner thereof;
thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Sublot 133 to the centerline of West 78th Street (40 ft. wide);
thence Southerly along the centerline of West 78th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lake Avenue (80
ft. wide); thence Westerly along the centerline of said Lake Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Catholic Charities by deed recorded in AFN 43860020 on
April 16, 1998 and being known as PPN 002-01-049; thence Southerly along the Northerly prolongation and Easterly
line of said PPN 002-01-049 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said
PPN 002-01-049 to the Easterly line of Sublot number 7 in the Lamb & Hooker Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said
Sublot 7 to the Northerly line of land conveyed to Detroit Avenue I Corp by deed recorded in AFN 66900027 on July
11, 1997 and being also known as PPN 002-01-007; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-01-007
to the centerline of West 80th Street (30 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 80th Street
to the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Detroit Terrace Ltd. by deed
recorded in AFN 562750012 on Nov. 6, 1985 and being also known as PPN 002-01-031; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of said PPN 002-01-031 to the Easterly line of Sublot 4 in the J.H. Hardy Sub-

64

January 24, 2007

The City Record

13

division as shown in Volume 7 page 10 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Southerly along the Easterly line
of Sublot 4 and Sublot 3 in said J.H. Hardy Subdivision to the Southerly line of land conveyed to Robert Miller Jr.
by deed recorded in AFN 5271304 on May 27, 2005 and being also known as PPN 002-01-029; thence Westerly along
the Southerly line of said PPN 002-01-029 to the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Luz M. Santos by deed
recorded in AFN 94660042 on Sept. 25, 1996 and being also known as PPN 002-01-030; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of said PPN 002-01-030 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Southerly line
of said PPN 002-01-030 to the centerline of West 83rd Street (60 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of
West 83rd Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to Robert L. and Shirley J. Lyons by deed recorded in AFN 3180980 on March 18, 2002 and being also known as
PPN 001-08-019; thence Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and Southerly line of said PPN 001-08-019 to the
Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Robert L. and Shirley J. Lyons by deed recorded in AFN 5030947 on
May 3, 2002 and being also known as PPN 001-08-017; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said PPN 001-08017 to the Northeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said PPN 001-08-017 and along
the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Richard J. Lawler by deed recorded in AFN 2130025 on February 13, 2003 and being known as PPN 001-08-016 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said PPN 001-08-016 to the Southerly line of Sublot number 51 in the Robert R. Rhodes Allotment
as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 15 page 11 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot number 51 to the centerline of West 85th Street (45 ft. wide); thence Southerly along
the centerline of West 85th Street to its intersection with Detroit Avenue as aforesaid; thence Westerly along the
centerline of said Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 85th Street (40 ft. wide); thence
Southerly along the centerline of West 85th Street to the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot number 5 in the James F. Rhodes subdivision as shown in the recorded plat in Volume 15 page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and the Northerly line of said Sublot 5 to the Easterly line of Sublot 3 in said James F. Rhodes Subdivision; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot
3 to the Southwest corner of Sublot number 2 in said James F. Rhodes Subdivision; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot 2 to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said
Sublot 2 to the Southerly parcel of land conveyed to Medhat H. Fanous by deed recorded in AFN 15411063 on Dec.
4, 1980 and being known as PPN 002-20-010; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-20-010 to the
centerline of West 84th Street (40 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of West 84th Street to the Westerly prolongation of a Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the West Side Community Mental Health Center, Inc. by deed recorded in Volume 15293 page 691 of Cuyahoga County deed records; thence Easterly along said
Westerly prolongation and Southerly line to a Northeasterly corner; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said
parcel conveyed to West Side Community Mental Health Center, Inc. to the centerline of Franklin Blvd. (66 ft.
wide); thence Easterly along the centerline of said Franklin Blvd. to the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly
line of the West Side Community Health Center, Inc. as aforesaid; thence Northerly along the Southerly prolongation and the Easterly line of said West Side Community Mental Health Center, Inc. to a point 55 feet North of the
Southerly line of Sublot number 26 in the Herman Junge Re-Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume
21 page 26 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Easterly and parallel with the Southerly line of said Sublot
number 26 to the centerline of West 81st Street (50 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West
81st Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot number 4 in the Herman Junge Re-Subdivision as aforesaid; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Northerly line of said
Sublot number 4 to the Westerly line of Sublot number 3 in the Herman Junge Re-Subdivision as shown by the
Recorded plat in Volume 22 page 21 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Northerly along the Westerly line
of Sublot number 3 and Sublot number 2 in said Herman Junge Re-Subdivision to the Northeast corner thereof;
thence Easterly along the Northerly line of Sublot number 2 in said Herman Junge Re-Subdivision to its intersection with the centerline of West 80th Place; thence Southerly along said centerline of West 80th Place to its intersection with the Northerly line of Sublot 17 in the Charles Pease Subdivision as shown by the recorded Plat in Volume 20 page 12 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said Sublot number
17 to the Northeasterly corner thereof; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of Sublot Numbers 17 and 28 in said
Charles Pease Subdivision to its intersection with the centerline of Franklin Blvd. as aforesaid; thence Easterly
along the centerline of said Franklin Blvd. to the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of Sublot number 14
in the L.C. Anthony Re-Subdivision as shown by the Recorded Plat in Volume 12 page 12 of the Cuyahoga County
Map Records; thence Northerly along the Southerly prolongation and Westerly line of Sublot number 14 in said L.C.
Anthony Re-Subdivision to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Northern line of Sublot numbers 14, 13, 12, and 11 in the L.C. Anthony Re-Subdivision to the Easterly line of said Subdivision; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said L.C. Anthony Re-Subdivision to its intersection with the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Nick Papadelis by deed recorded on August 8, 2000 and being also known as PPN 002-19005; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-19-005 to the centerline of West 77th Street (36 ft.
wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 77th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Hermino Ballado and others by deed recorded on July
20, 1979 and being also known as PPN 002-19-004; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and the Southerly line of said PPN 002-19-004 to the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Herminio Ballado by deed recorded AFN150580561 on July 20, 1979 and being also known as PPN 002-19-003; thence Southerly along the Westerly line
of said PPN 002-19-003 to the most Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said
PPN 002-19-003 to the Westerly line of Sublot number 30 in the W.A. Poyer Subdivision as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 13 page 48 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of Sublot
30 in said W.A. Poyer Subdivision to the Northwestern corner thereof; thence Easterly along the northern line of
Sublot number 30 in said W.A. Poyer Subdivision to the Westerly line of Sublot number 31 in said W.A. Poyer Subdivision; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 31 about 59.40 feet to a point; thence Westerly and parallel with the Southerly line of said Sublot 31 to the centerline of West 75th Street (40 ft. wide); thence
Southerly along the centerline of said West 75th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of a line
which is distant 10.5 feet Southerly from and parallel with the Northerly line of Sublot number 12 in the W. A.
Poyer Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 page 48 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence
Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and along said line which is also the Northerly line of PPN 002-18-022 to
the Easterly line of said parcel; thence Northerly along said line to the Northeasterly corner of Sublot number 99
in the W.A. Poyer Subdivision as aforesaid; thence continuing Northerly 1.87 feet to a point; thence Easterly and
parallel with Sublot number 99 as aforesaid to the centerline of West 74th Street (50 ft. wide); thence Northerly

65

14

The City Record

January 24, 2007

along the centerline of West 74th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of
Sublot number 83 in the Jones Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 page 38 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Southerly line of Sublot numbers 83 through
87 both inclusive in said Jones Allotment to the Southeast corner of said Sublot number 87; thence Southerly to the
Northerly line of PPN 002-18-044 said line being Northerly line 124.56 feet from the Northerly line of West Clinton
Avenue (60 ft. wide); thence Easterly in a direct line parallel with the Southerly line of Detroit Avenue to the
Northwesterly corner of Sublot number 35 in the Gordon Avenue Allotment as shown by the Recorded plat in Volume 21 page 2 of Cuyahoga County map records; thence continuing Easterly along the Northerly line of said Sublot
number 35 to the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Nell P. Collins by deed recorded in Volume 87-3507
page 32 of Cuyahoga County records on May 28, 1987 said parcel being also known as PPN 002-17-026; thence Northerly, Easterly, and Southerly along said PPN 002-17-026 to the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Mara
Stojanov by deed recorded in Volume 87-6262 page 49 of Cuyahoga County deed records on December 28, 1987 and
being also known as PPN 002-17-014; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said PPN 002-17-014 to the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Alejandro Aviles by deed recorded in AFN 200506061071 on June 6, 2005
and being also known as PPN 002-17-028; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-17-028 to the
Northwest corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-17-028, 002-17-029, and 002-17-030
to the Westerly line of Sublot number 8 in the Gordon Avenue Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume
21 page 2 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Southerly along Sublot number 8 in said Gordon Avenue
Allotment to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said Sublot number 8 to
the Westerly line of Sublot number 9 in said Gordon Avenue allotment; thence Northerly along the Westerly line
of Sublot number 9 in said Gordon Avenue Allotment 16 feet to a point; thence Easterly on a line parallel with and
distant 16 feet by rectangular measurement from the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 9 and 10 in the said Gordon
Avenue Allotment to the Westerly line of Sublot 11 in the aforesaid Gordon Avenue Allotment; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 11 to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of Sublot numbers 11 through 14 both inclusive in said Gordon Avenue Allotment to the Westerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to F & S Limited partnership by deed dated December 31, 1992 and recorded in
Volume 92-12048 page 25 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records and being also known as PPN 002-17-081; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-17-081 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said PPN 002-17-081 to the centerline of Dehner Court (20 ft. wide); thence Easterly along the centerline of Dehner Court to its intersection with the centerline of West 65th Street (80 ft. wide); thence Southerly
along the centerline of said West 65th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in AFN 15480847 on Sept. 16, 1981 and
being also known as PPN 002-16-026; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Southerly line of said
PPN 002-16-026 to the Southeastern corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said PPN 002-16-026
and along the Easterly line of PPN 002-16-025 conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in AFN 152370869
on March 24, 1980 to the Southerly line of Sublot number 194 in the Gordon Avenue Allotment as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 21 page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of
Sublot numbers 194, 193, 192, 191, and 190 in said Gordon Avenue Allotment to the Westerly line of the Johnson,
Sacket & Waterbury Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 9 page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map records;
thence continuing Easterly along the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 1 through 6 both inclusive in said Johnson,
Sacket & Waterbury Allotment to the Westerly line of the Rhodes & Coffinberry Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 8 page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Sublot
number 6 in said Rhodes and Coffinberry Allotment to the Westerly line of Sublot number 5 in said allotment;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 5 a distance of 31 feet to a point; thence Easterly
and parallel with Detroit Avenue 100 feet to the Easterly line of said Sublot number 5; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of said Sublot number 5 to the Southwesterly corner of Sublot number 4 in said Rhodes and Coffinberry Allotment; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Sublot number 4 in said Rhodes & Coffinberry Allotment to the southeasterly corner thereof; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot number 4 to the
centerline of Waverly Court (11 ft. wide); thence Easterly along the centerline of said Waverly Court to its intersection with the centerline of West 58th Street (60 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of West 58th
Street to the Western prolongation of the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Craig McAllister by deed
in AFN 422110014 on May 22, 1984 and being also known as PPN 002-15-010; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Southerly line of said PPN 002-15-010 to the Westerly line of Sublot number 2 in the N.M. Standart
Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of Sublot number 2 in said N.M. Standart Subdivision to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 2 and 1 in the aforesaid N.M. Standart Subdivision
and its Easterly prolongation across West 57th Street (60 ft. wide) to the Southwesterly corner of Sublot number
110 in the aforesaid N.M. Standart Subdivision; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 110 and
109 in said N.M. Standart Subdivision to the Westerly line of Sublot number 2 in the proposed Goodman Melcher
Subdivision and being also known as PPN 002-15-064; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-15064 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-15-064 to the Westerly line of Sublot number 1 in the aforesaid proposed Goodman, Melcher Subdivision and being also known as PPN
002-15-065; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said PPN 002-15-065 to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of said PPN 002-15-065 to the centerline of West 55th Street (30 ft. wide); thence
Southerly along the centerline of said West 55th Street to its Southerly terminus; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said West 55th Street and its Easterly prolongation to the Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt & James
Wade Jr. Subdivision as shown by the plat recorded in Volume 1 page 17 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of said James M. Hoyt & James Wade Jr. Subdivision to a point distant 50 feet
Northerly from the Northerly line of Sublot number 58 in said Hoyt & Wade Subdivision; thence Easterly and parallel with the Northerly line of Sublot number 58 in said Hoyt and Wade Subdivision to the centerline of West 54th
Street (60 ft. wide); thence Southerly along the centerline of said West 54th Street to the Westerly prolongation of
the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Helen Vintila by deed recorded in Volume 82-5664 page 901 of
Cuyahoga County deed records and being also known as PPN 002-14-025; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Northerly line of said PPN 002-14-025 to the Westerly line of the Westside Ecumenical Ministry, Inc.
Lot Consolidation as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 313 page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of said Westside Ecumenical Ministry parcel to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said West Side Ecumenical Ministry parcel to the Southeasterly cor-

66

January 24, 2007

The City Record

15

ner thereof; thence Northerly along the irregular Easterly line of said West Side Ecumenical Ministry parcel to its
intersection with the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to John P. and Popie Papouras by deed recorded
in AFN 199904140584 and being known as PPN 002-14-120; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said PPN 00214-120 to the centerline of West 52nd Street (60 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 52nd
Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot number 5 in the L. W. Sapp
Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 page 4 of Cuyahoga County map records; thence Easterly
along the Westerly prolongation and the Northerly line of Sublot number 5 in said L.W. Sapp Subdivision to the
Easterly line of said L.W. Sapp Subdivision; thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said L.W. Sapp Subdivision
to the Northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Blook Bought Realty, LLC by deed recorded in Volume 98 –
08678 page 26 of Cuyahoga County records and being also known as PPN 002-14-093; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said PPN 002-14-093 to the centerline of West 50th Street (50 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the
centerline of said West 50th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of Sublot
number 4 in the Levi Martin Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 page 49 of Cuyahoga County
map records; thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and Southerly line of Sublot number 4 in said Levi
Martin Subdivision to the Southwesterly corner of a lot consolidation for the Davis Welding Supply Company Inc.
as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 272 page 33 of Cuyahoga County Map records; thence Easterly along the
irregular Southerly line of said Davis Welding Supply Company Inc. parcel and its Westerly prolongation to the
centerline of West 48th Street (60 ft. wide); thence Northerly along the centerline of said West 48th Street to its
intersection with the centerline of Wheat Court (16.5 ft. wide); thence Easterly along the centerline of Wheat Court
to its intersection with the centerline of West 45th Street as aforesaid; thence Northerly along said West 45th Street
to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue and the place of beginning.
Section 2. That the Gordon Square Historic District, which in its entirety is a property having special character
or special historical or aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, be and it hereby is designated a landmark pursuant to Chapter 161 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 3. That the designation of the area set forth in Section 1 hereof as the Gordon Square Historic District
shall be noted on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the City Planning Commission. Further, a copy
of the map attached hereto shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Cleveland Landmarks Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure, and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

67

16
Ord. No. 65-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone, Santiago and Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Property to enter into an
agreement with #1 Media to allow
them to obtain and appoint the title
sponsor for 4th of July Fireworks
during the next four years 2007-2010.
Whereas, #1 Media (a Division of
Josie G. Inc.) desires the ability to
name the title sponsor that for the
2007 Fourth of July Fireworks Festival (“Festival”), and the three
years after that; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with #1 Media to allow them
to solicit and appoint on behalf of
the City, the title sponsor for the
Festival for the next four years
2007-2010, provided that the words
“City of Cleveland” remain in the
name of the Festival and that the
City has given written approval of
the title sponsor. The Title Sponsor
shall be available to any entity that
shall produce, organize, promote,
and market the Festival regardless
of which venue the fireworks are
detonated from.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 66-07.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 97th Street to
The Finch Group or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted and implemented procedures
under Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the

The City Record
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-060 as
more fully described below, to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 15 in Charles W. and
Matilda Wason’s Subdivision of a
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Nos. 392, 393, 400 and 401 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County
Records,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Northeasterly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E., (86 feet wide) at its intersection with the East line of East 93rd
Street, (60 feet wide); thence Northerly, along the Easterly line of East
93rd Street, 13.15 feet to an iron pin
found at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 15; thence Easterly,
along the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 15, 160.00 feet to an iron
pin at the Northeasterly corner
thereof; thence Southerly, along the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 15,
18.38 feet to an iron pin in the
Northerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E.; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E., 160.06 feet to the place of
beginning, containing 2522 square
feet, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-080 as
more fully described below to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 4. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
401, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 97th Street (formerly Logan
Street), 56 feet wide at its intersection with the Southerly line of land
conveyed to Sarah Sherman Carter
by deed dated April 20, 1903, and
recorded in Volume 869 Page 413 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
East 97th Street, 37 feet to the
Northerly line of land conveyed to
Helen B. Wright, by deed dated
December 6, 1910, and recorded in
Volume 1322, Page 244 of County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Helen D. Wright, about 225 feet
to the Southeasterly corner of parcel of land conveyed to Clarence
Siler and Carrie Siler by deed dated
June 6, 1950, and recorded In Volume 7024, Page 670 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the Easterly line of said parcel so conveyed to Clarence Siler
and Carrie Siler, 37 feet to the
Southerly line of the parcel conveyed to Sarah Sherman Carter as
aforesaid; thence Easterly along

68

January 24, 2007
said Southerly line, about 225 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
The
next
preceding
recorded
instrument by or through which title
is claimed is in Volume 7630 Page
328 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-081 as
more fully described below, to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 6. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre No. 401
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 97th Street (formerly Logan
Street) 56 feet wide at its intersection with the Northerly line of land
conveyed to Elizabeth C. Robertson
by deed dated October 15, 1867 and
recorded in Volume 152, Page 66 of
Cuyahoga County Records, thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East
97th
Street
approximately
117.91to the Southerly line of land so
conveyed to Emily D. Moore by deed
dated September 3, 1902 and recorded in Volume 829, Page 297 of Cuyahoga County Records, thence Westerly along the Southerly line of land
so conveyed to Emily D. Moore,
approximately 232 feet to the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Frank H. Teagle by deed dated
November 16, 1910 and recorded in
Volume 1271, Page 619 of Cuyahoga
County Records, thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of land so
conveyed to Frank H. Teagle 60 feet
to the Southeasterly corner thereof,
thence Westerly along the Southerly line of land so conveyed to Frank
H. Teagle 25 feet to the Easterly
line of Charles W. and Matilda W.
Wason’s Subdivision, recorded in
Volume 17 of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said
Subdivision about 57.91 feet to the
Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Elizabeth C. Robertson as
aforesaid, thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Elizabeth C. Robertson about 257
feet, to the place of beginning , be
the same more or less; but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-082 as
more fully described, to The Finch
Group or designee.
Section 8. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-082
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre No. 401,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the center line of
East 97th Street (formerly Logan
Street) at the Southeasterly corner

January 24, 2007
of land conveyed to Elizabeth C.
Robertson by deed dated October 15,
1867 and recorded in Volume 152,
Page
66
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
thence
Northerly
along
said center line of East 97th Street,
57.915 feet to the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to George W.
Hale, by deed dated April 11, 1915
and recorded in Volume 1672, Page
140 of Cuyahoga County Records,
thence Westerly along the Southerly line of land so conveyed to
George W. Hale to the Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Elizabeth C. Robertson; as aforesaid;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of land so conveyed to Elizabeth C. Robertson, about 57.915 feet
to the Southwesterly corner thereof,
thence Easterly along the Southerly
line of land so conveyed to Elizabeth C. Robertson, about 282,975
feet, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-083 as
more fully described below, to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre No. 401,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the center line of
East 97th Street, (formerly Logan
Street), at the Northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to Thomas E. Fogarty and Sarah B. Fogarty by deed
dated December 15, 1953 and recorded in Volume 8004, Page 94 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Northerly along the center line of East
97th Street, about 74.84 feet to the
Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to W.S. Streator by deed dated
June 15, 1867 and recorded in Volume 147, Page 399 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed to W.S. Streator, about
279.51 feet to the Northwesterly corner thereof, thence Southerly along
the Westerly line of land so conveyed to W.S. Streator, about 75.50
feet to the Northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to Thomas E. Fogarty and Sarah B. Fogarty as aforesaid thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Thomas E. Fogarty and Sarah B.
Fogarty, about 279.51 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or lees, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-084 as
more fully described below, to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a part of

The City Record
Original One Hundred Acre No. 401,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the center line of
East 97th Street, (formerly Logan
Street), at a point distant 860.64 feet
Northerly, measured along said center line of East 97th Street, from its
intersection with the center line of
Euclid Avenue, said point being also
the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to W.S. Streator, by deed
dated June 15, 1867, and recorded in
Volume 147, Page 399 of Cuyahoga
County Records, thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of land so
conveyed to W.S. Streator, about
279.51 feet to the Southwesterly corner thereof, thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of land so conveyed to W.S. Streator, 40 feet to a
point, thence Easterly parallel with
the Southerly line of land so conveyed to W.S. Streator, about 279,51
feet to the center line of East 97th
Street, thence Southerly along said
center line, 40 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-085-A as
more fully described below, to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-085-A
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre No. 401,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 97th Street (formerly Logan
Avenue) at its intersection with the
Northerly line of the first parcel of
land conveyed to Ann H. Norton by
deed dated October 29, 1860, and
recorded in Volume 109, Page 329 of
Cuyahoga County Records, thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
East 97th Street, about 45.54 feet to
the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed dated October 8, 1938 and
recorded in Volume 4912, Page 640
of Cuyahoga County Records, said
point being also in the Northerly
line of Chester Avenue, N.E.; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
land so conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, said Northerly line being
also the Northerly line of Chester
Avenue N.E., 255.54 feet to the Westerly line of the first parcel of land
conveyed to Ann H. Norton, as aforesaid; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of the first parcel of
land so conveyed to Ann H. Norton
about 38.15 feet to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of the first
parcel of land so conveyed to Ann
H. Norton, to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-08-085-B as
more fully described below, to The
Finch Group or designee.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordi-

69

17
nance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-08-085-B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original One Hundred Acre No. 401, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 97th Street (formerly Logan
Avenue), at its intersection with the
Northerly line of land conveyed to
Belle L. Hawgood by deed dated
April 6, 1916 and recorded in Volume
1763, Page 521 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Belle L. Hawgood about 255.43
feet to the Easterly line of Charles
W. and Matilda W. Wason Subdivision recorded in Volume 17 of Maps,
Page
26
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of said Subdivision,
0.50 feet; thence Easterly in a direct
line about 255.43 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 17. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 18. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 19. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 20. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 67-07.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 83rd Street,
Cedar Avenue to Delmar Yarbrough.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

18
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 119-28-035,
119-28-036, 119-28-037 and 119-28-038,
as more fully described below, to
Delmar Yarbrough.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-28-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in Clewell and Worley’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 407, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 56 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Cedar Avenue, S.E., (formerly Cedar
Avenue), at a point 58 feet, 5-1/4
inches East of the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 1, said
point of beginning being also the
Northeasterly corner of premises
conveyed to H.J. Caldwell by deed
dated May 11, 1888, and recorded in
Volume 429, Page 211 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Cedar
Avenue S.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly on a line parallel to the Easterly line of land as conveyed to H. J.
Caldwell, 125 feet to a point; thence
Westerly on a line parallel to the
Southerly line of Cedar Avenue, S.E.,
40 feet to said Easterly line of land
so conveyed to H.J. Caldwell; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line
of land so conveyed, 125 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Covenants and restrictions in Volume 438, Page 122 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Zoning ordinance, if any.
P. P. No. 119-28-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in Clewell and Worley’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 407 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 56 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Cedar Avenue S.E., at a point 40 feet
Easterly from its intersection with
the Easterly line of land conveyed
by D.W. Loud and Deborah A. Loud,
husband and wife, to H.J. Caldwell

The City Record
by deed dated May 11, 1888 and
recorded in Volume 429, Page 211 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly along the said Southerly
line of Cedar Avenue, S.E, 40 feet;
thence, Southerly parallel with the
said Easterly line of land so conveyed to H.J. Caldwell as aforesaid
125 feet; thence Westerly parallel
with the said Southerly line of
Cedar Avenue, S.E. 40 feet; thence
Northerly 125 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to covenants and restrictions contained in instrument recorded in Volume 438, Page 122 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.

January 24, 2007

P. P. No. 119-28-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in Clewell and Worley’s
Allotment of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 407, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
56
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 37 feet front on
the Southwesterly side of Cedar
Avenue, S.E., and extending back of
equal width 125 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.

Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

P. P. No. 119-28-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga encl. State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in T. G. C1ewell, John
A. Worley and E. A. Robinson’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 407, as shown
by the recorded plat to Volume 3
of Maps, Page 56 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and bounded hard
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 83rd Street (formerly Lincoln
Avenue) as recorded in Volume 10,
Page
10
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, at a point 125 feet Southerly measured along said Westerly
from its point of intersection with
the Southerly line of Cedar Avenue,
S.E.; thence Westerly on a line parallel to said Southerly line of Cedar
Ave., S.E., about 119 feet to the Easterly line of land conveyed by D. W.
Loud and wife, to H. J. Caldwell by
deed dated Nov. 5, 1888, and recorded in Volume 429, Page 211 of Cuyahoga County Records: thence Southerly along said Easterly line of land
so conveyed to H. J. Caldwell 35
feet; thence Easterly on a line parallel to said Southerly line of Cedar
Ave., S. E. about 119 feet to said
Westerly line of East 83rd Street;
thence Northerly along said Westerly line of said East 83rd Street, 35
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.

Ord. No. 93-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation for a Community Gun Buy
Back Program through the use of
Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Mt.
Pleasant NOW Development Corporation for the implementation of a
Community Gun Buy Back Program
for the public purpose of removing
handguns and other firearms from
Cleveland neighborhoods in order to
improve overall public safety for
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Law; Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.

70

The City Record

January 24, 2007

19

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 68-07.
By Council Member Dolan.
An ordinance to change the Use District of property located on the south side of Lorain Avenue between West
160th Street and West 162nd Street from General Retail Business to Local Retail Business (Map Change No. 2211;
Sheet No. 12).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline
of West 160th Street;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said centerline of West 160th Street to its intersection with the
easterly prolongation of the northerly line of Sublot Number 77 in the Pasadena Park Subdivision as shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 56, Page 33 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as
Cuyahoga County’s permanent parcel number 025-29-048;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly line and continuing westerly along its
westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 162nd Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 162nd Street and along it northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the principal place of
beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2211, Sheet No. 12 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

71

20

The City Record

January 24, 2007

Ord. No. 69-07.
By Council Member Lewis.
An ordinance changing the zoning of land on the north side of Chester Avenue between East 90th Street and
East 97th Street from a Multi-Family Residential Use District to Local Retail Business, a General Retail Business
District and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2206; Sheet No. 5).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, and State of Ohio and known as being part of Original
100 Acre Lot No. 400 and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 90th Street 60 feet wide at its intersection with the centerline of Chester Avenue;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 90th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the centerline of Carrie Court;
Thence easterly along said prolongation of said centerline of Carrie Court and along its easterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of East 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 93rd to its intersection with the centerline of Chester Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Chester Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 90th
Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio and known as being part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 401 and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 97th Street formerly Logan Street 56 feet wide at its intersection with the
centerline of Chester Avenue 86 feet wide;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 97th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Emily D. Moore by deed dated September 3, 1902 and recorded
in Volume 829, Page 297 of Cuyahoga County Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County
Permanent Parcel Number 119-08-080;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to George W. Hale by deed dated April 11th, 1915 as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 1672, Page 140 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County Permanent Parcel Number 119-08-081;
Thence westerly along said northerly to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Cleveland Clinic Foundation by deed dated June 20, 2002 and recorded in Cuyahoga County Auditor’s
File Number 200206200861 said parcel also being known as the southerly 15 feet of Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 119-08-066;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of East 93rd Street 60 feet wide;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 93rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Chester Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Chester Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of East 97th
Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District and a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 3. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2206, Sheet No. 5 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

72

January 24, 2007

The City Record

21

Ord. No. 70-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use District of land on the east and west sides of East 152nd Street north of
Kinsman Road from a Two Family Residential District to a Residence Office District (Map Change No. 2210;
Sheet No. 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 152nd Street 40 feet wide at its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the southerly line of Sublot Number 124 in the A. Schmitt Subdivision Not Recorded, said parcel also being
known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 130-19-026;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of the Van
Sweringen Co. Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 55, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the City of Cleveland & City of Shaker Heights
City Limit Line;
Thence westerly along said City Limit Line to its intersection with the centerline of East 150th Street 50 feet
wide;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 150th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of Sublot Number 4 in the Palmer & Burnett Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 34, Page 5 in
the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of East 152nd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line
of the aforementioned Sublot Number 124 and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Residence-Office District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2210, Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

73

22

The City Record

January 24, 2007

Ord. No. 71-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Height District of land on the north side of Detroit Avenue between West 65th
Street to West 67th Street from a ‘1’ or a ‘2’ Height District to a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2209; Sheet
No. 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 65th Street 66 feet wide at its intersection with the centerline of Detroit
Avenue;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 65th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of vacated Alger Court NW 16 feet wide;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly line and continuing along its westerly
prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 67th Street 40 feet wide;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 67th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Gordon Square Homes LP by deed dated September 23rd, 2005
and recorded in Cuyahoga County Auditor’s File Number 200509230563, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-09-108;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection
with the the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 65th
Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2209, Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

74

January 24, 2007
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 61-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for the acquisition and redevelopment and/or
rehabilitation of the blighted premises located at 1570 East 105th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Ordinance No. 1444A-88, passed June 18, 1990, approved
and adopted Chapter 324 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, relating to the elimination of
spot blight; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 127806, passed December 11, 2006, this
Council declared the subject property a blighted premises and authorized the Director of Community
Development to acquire the blighted
premises and to sell the premises to
FEDCO Services, LLC; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of eliminating blight and preventing the recurrence of blight in
the neighborhood surrounding the
blighted premises located at 1570
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio,
through the acquisition and redevelopment and/or rehabilitation, it
is necessary to appropriate in fee
simple the blighted premises, and
the Council declares its intent to
appropriate the fee simple interest
in and to the following described
blighted premises:
P. P. No. 107-25-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio:
And known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 393, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 105th Street (formerly Doan
Street), 60 feet wide, at the inter-section of said Westerly line with the
Southerly line of land conveyed to
Samuel N. Pentecost by deed dated
August 13,1898, and recorded in Volume 700, Page 127 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of East 105th
Street, 50 feet to a point; thence
Westerly and parallel to the Southerly line of land so conveyed to Samuel
N. Pentecost, 150 feet; thence Southerly and parallel to the Westerly line
of East 105th Street, 50 feet to the
Southwesterly corner of land so conveyed to Samuel N. Pentecost; thence
Easterly along the Southerly line of
land so conveyed to Samuel N. Pentecost, 150 feet to the place of beginning, and being further known as
Sublot No. 3 in Caroline D. Pentecost’s Proposed Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
393, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed to
cause written notice of the adoption
of this resolution to be given to the
owners and persons in possession or
having an interest of record in the
above-described blighted premises.
The notice shall be served according
to law by a person designated for
that purpose by the Director of
Finance and return shall be made in
the manner provided by law.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 62-07.
By Council Members Reed, Pierce
Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for the acquisition and redevelopment and/or
rehabilitation of the blighted premises located at 3509 East 120th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Ordinance No. 1444A-88, passed June 18, 1990, approved
and adopted Chapter 324 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, relating to the elimination of
spot blight; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1364-06, passed December 11, 2006,
this Council declared the subject
property a blighted premises and
authorized the Director of Community Development to acquire the
blighted premises and to sell the
premises to KidsHealth 2020; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of eliminating blight and preventing the recurrence of blight in
the neighborhood surrounding the
blighted premises located at 3509
East 120th Street, Cleveland, Ohio,
through the acquisition and redevelopment and/or rehabilitation, it
is necessary to appropriate in fee
simple the blighted premises, and
the Council declares its intent to
appropriate the fee simple interest
in and to the following described
blighted premises:
3509 East 120th Street
P. P. No. 137-02-134
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being as being
part of Sublot Nos. 179 and 180 in
Peter and Caroline Ray’s Allotment
of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
452, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 14 of Maps, Page 2 of
Cuyahoga County Records, together
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 120th Street (formerly Longacre Street) at a point 100 feet
Southerly, measured along the said
Easterly line, from its point of intersection with the Southerly line of
Union Avenue, S.E.; thence Southerly along said Easterly line of East
120th Street 37 feet to a point;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Southerly line of Union Avenue, S.E.
80 feet to a point in the Easterly
line of Sublot No. 179 in said Allotment; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 179, 37
feet to a point; thence Westerly parallel with the Southerly line of
Union Avenue, S.E. 80 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by

75

23
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed to
cause written notice of the adoption
of this resolution to be given to the
owners and persons in possession or
having an interest of record in the
above-described blighted premises.
The notice shall be served according
to law by a person designated for
that purpose by the Director of
Finance and return shall be made in
the manner provided by law.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 63-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
employ one or more temporary
employment agencies to provide professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and the Project
Clean program and for the Department of Finance, for a period not
exceeding one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more temporary
employment agency or agencies for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland to provide the professional services necessary to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and Project Clean
program, for a period not exceeding
one year.
The selection of the agency or
agencies shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties from a list of qualified
agencies available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties for the purpose of compiling
a list. The compensation to be paid
for the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
temporary employment agency or
agencies for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff

The City Record

24
of the several departments of the
City of Cleveland to provide the professional services necessary to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the Department of Finance,
for a period not exceeding one year.
The selection of the agency or
agencies shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Finance from a list of
qualified
agencies
available
for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of by the Director
Finance for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be

paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
and approved and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 01-701217-638000, 01150300-632000, 62 SF 001, 63 SF 001,
13 SF 738, and funds appropriated
for this purpose in budget year 2007,
Request No. 169620.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

January 24, 2007
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.

Ord. No. 64-07.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 24 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1067-06, passed June 12, 2006, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 24 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No. 1067-06,
passed June 12, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 24. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the
schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................
Cable Foreman .............................................................................
Cable Splicer .................................................................................
Cable Splicer I .............................................................................
Cable Splicer II ...........................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................
Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman ...................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman ...........................
Electric Transmission and Distribution Inspector.........
Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................
Line Foreman ...............................................................................
Line Clearance Man ...................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Lineman ..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Line Switchman ...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Senior Electric Switchboard Operator.................................
Senior Lineman ............................................................................
Signal System Powerman ........................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

Minimum
$14.78
$14.89
$20.92
$17.46
$18.72
$17.14
$12.62
$17.64
$18.64

Maximum
$23.95
$24.13
$31.33
$26.25
$28.10
$25.76
$22.18
$26.50
$28.00

$18.86
$14.55
$20.92
$17.38
$16.18
$17.38
$20.92
$18.72
$20.55
$17.38
$14.78
$14.86
$19.93
$20.92
$14.62
$12.44
$18.72
$20.06
$20.06
$17.46
$14.37
$18.30
$19.19
$19.19
$19.71
$16.39
$19.71
$19.54
$19.54
$20.69
$20.92
$19.71
$20.92

$28.31
$23.61
$31.33
$26.61
$24.37
$26.11
$31.33
$28.60
$30.80
$26.61
$23.95
$22.42
$29.90
$31.33
$23.30
$22.59
$28.10
$30.07
$30.07
$26.25
$23.30
$29.76
$28.79
$28.79
$29.57
$24.65
$29.57
$29.32
$29.32
$31.00
$31.33
$29.57
$31.33

Section 2. That existing Section 24 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No.
1067-06, passed June 12, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.

76

January 24, 2007
Ord. No. 72-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Temporary
Sidewalk Occupancy Permit to Anna
Piperis to engage in peddling at
West 43rd Street and Clark Avenue.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the request of Anna Piperis to
engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow Anna Piperis to
peddle in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
Anna Piperis to engage in mobile
peddling in the public rights of way
of Ward 14. at West 43rd Street and
Clark Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 73-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Temporary
Sidewalk Occupancy Permit to Irene
Sakellis to engage in peddling
between West 30th Street – West
31st Street and Clark Avenue in
Ward 14.
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the request of Irene Sakellis to
engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow Irene Sakellis to
peddle in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
Irene Sakellis to engage in mobile
peddling in the public rights of way
of Ward 14 at West 30th – West 31st
Streets and Clark Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 74-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 19th Annual Walk for
Hunger, on May 12, 2007, sponsored
by the Hunger Network of Greater
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 19th Annual
Walk for Hunger, sponsored by the
Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland, on May 12, 2007, with the
Walk beginning at Burke Lakefront Airport and progressing to
Erieside, around the Browns Stadium, south on West 3rd, west on St.
Clair, south on West 9th to Superior, east on Superior to Ontario,
south on Ontario to Huron, east on
Huron to Erie, east on Erie to East
9th, north on East 9th to Superior,
west on Superior to Mall, cross
through Mall to Lakeside, east on
Lakeside to East 9th, north on East
9th to North Coast Harbor to the
finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in

77

25
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 75-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Unity Baptist Church to stretch banners on the corner of East 104th &
Kinsman, and East 105th & Kinsman (Pole Nos. CEI 346450, SE-6-67,
318232, and SE-6-68-2), for the period
from January 22, 2007 to February
21, 2007, inclusive, celebrating the
church’s 89th anniversary.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Unity Baptist
Church to install, maintain and
remove banners on the corner of
East 104th & Kinsman, and East
105th & Kinsman (Pole Nos. CEI
346450, SE-6-67, 318232, and SE-6-682), for the period from January 22,
2007 to February 21, 2007, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

26
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 76-07.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit at 13429 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, and repealing
Resolution No. 1652-06, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
13429 Lakewood Heights Boulevard
by Resolution No. 1652-06 adopted by
the Council on October 2, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 2 Wolves, Inc., 13429 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44107, Permanent Number 9116441 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1652-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 77-07.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 11121 Western Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, and repealing
Resolution No. 1135-06, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 11121 Western Avenue, 1st
floor and basement by Resolution
No. 1135-06 adopted by the Council
on July 12, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Kickstand Smitty’s Saloon, Inc.,
11121 Western Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 4622081 be and

The City Record
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1135-06, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 78-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 6542 Broadway
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 2096-06, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 6557
Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA Key
Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent No. 82007440001, adopted by
the Council on December 11, 2006;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 6557
Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA Key
Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 82007440001 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 2096-06, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 79-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the objection
of a Liquor Agency Contract located at 6542 Broadway Avenue.

78

January 24, 2007
Whereas, this Council objected to
a Liquor Agency Contract located at
6556 Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA
Key Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 82007440001 by
Resolution No. 2095-06 adopted by
the Council on December 11, 2006;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
Liquor Agency Contract located at
6556 Broadway Avenue, Inc., DBA
Key Beverage & Liquor, 6542 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 82007440001, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 2095-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 80-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1187
Old River Road & Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from 1187 Old
River Road, Inc., DBA Porky’s Café
in the Flats, 1187 Old River Road &
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 6548831 to Jackie A.
Craddock, DBA Cleveland’s Coyote,
1187 Old River Road & Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
1794530; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement

January 24, 2007
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 1187 Old River
Road, Inc., DBA Porky’s Café in the
Flats, 1187 Old River Road & Patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6548831 to Jackie A. Craddock, DBA Cleveland’s Coyote, 1187
Old River Road & Patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
1794530; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 81-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
5611 Woodland Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1771-06, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Jai Ambaji, Inc.,
DBA Hometown Grocery, 5611 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent No. 4225578, by Resolution No. 1771-06 adopted by the Council on October 23, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Jai Ambaji, Inc.,
DBA Hometown Grocery, 5611 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 4225578, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1771-06, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 82-07.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to
14505 Woodworth Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Tavern on
the Mall, Inc., DBA Tavern on the
Mall, 602 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
8812957 to Washington Express, Inc.,
14505 Woodworth Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number
9419081; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safe-

79

27
ty and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Tavern on the
Mall, Inc., DBA Tavern on the Mall,
602 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 8812957 to
Washington Express, Inc., 14505
Woodworth Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44112, Permanent Number 9419081,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 83-07.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
11313 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit from Noahe,
Inc., DBA Boarding House Deli &
Carry Out, 11313 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number 6416022 to Mahadev Trading
Company, DBA Boarding House Deli
& Carryout, 11313 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number 5433601; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department

28
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit from Noahe, Inc.,
DBA Boarding House Deli & Carry
Out, 11313 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44106,
Permanent
Number
6416022 to Mahadev Trading Company, DBA Boarding House Deli &
Carryout,
11313
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number 5433601; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 84-07.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
2975 Woodhill Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Lamater, Inc.,
DBA Woodhill Deli, 2975 Woodhill
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 4997986; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local

The City Record
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Lamater, Inc., DBA
Woodhill Deli, 2975 Woodhill Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 4997986; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 85-07.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 7502 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from Pyramids Market, Inc.,
DBA Pyramids Market, 7502 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 6082097 to 75th
Corp., DBA Pyramids Market, 7502
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio

80

January 24, 2007
44103, Permanent Number 8002011;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Pyramids Market, Inc.,
DBA Pyramids Market, 7502 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 6082097 to 75th
Corp., DBA Pyramids Market, 7502
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 8002011;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

January 24, 2007
Res. No. 86-07.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 15507 Saranac Road, and
repealing Resolution Nos. 1349-05 and
1319-06, objecting to said renewals.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 15507 Saranac Road by
Resolution No. 1349-05 adopted by
the Council on July 13, 2005 and Resolution No. 1319-06 adopted by the
Council on August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to
a cooperation agreement between
Councilmember Michael D. Polensek and Applicant, Debra Zigman
Pachinger, President of White Road
Gang, Inc.; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objections to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to White Road Gang, Inc., DBA Walland’s Saloon, 15507 Saranac Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 9574755 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
Nos. 1349-05 and 1319-06, containing
such objections, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 87-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 14101 1/2 Kinsman Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 1816-06,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Zetawi, Inc.,
DBA Mt. Pleasant Beverage, 14101 1/2
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent No. 99020560001, by
Resolution No. 1816-06 adopted by
the Council on October 30, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Zetawi,
Inc., DBA Mt. Pleasant Beverage,
14101 1/2 Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number
99020560001 be and the same is here-

The City Record
by withdrawn and Resolution No.
1816-06, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 88-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 12210
Imperial Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1343-06, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 12210
Imperial Avenue by Resolution No.
1343-06 adopted by the Council on
August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Andrew
Rich, DBA Rich Quick Stop, 12210
Imperial Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 7346630 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1343-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 89-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3832
Martin Luther King Drive, and
repealing Resolution No. 1339-06,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3832
Martin Luther King Drive by Resolution No. 1339-06 adopted by the
Council on August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

81

29
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Jasmin
Beverage, Inc., DBA Times Square
Food Mart, 3832 Martin Luther King
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 4248529 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1339-06, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 90-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 9619
Anderson Road, 1st floor, and repealing Resolution No. 1320-06, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 9619
Anderson Road by Resolution No.
1320-06 adopted by the Council on
August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Venez,
Inc., DBA Sun Light Foods, 9619
Anerson Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 9246294 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1320-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

30
Res. No. 91-07.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 13999 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Rondor, Inc., DBA Normandy Tavern, 13999 Lorain Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
75210920005 to D & S Auto Sales,
Inc., DBA Normandy Tavern, 13999
Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 1883154; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Rondor, Inc., DBA Normandy Tavern, 13999 Lorain Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
75210920005 to D & S Auto Sales,
Inc., DBA Normandy Tavern, 13999
Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 1883154; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 92-07.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 13951 Triskett Road, and
repealing Resolution No. 1906-06,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Mac Convenient Stores, LLC, DBA Circle K
#5580, 13951 Triskett Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent No.
54054195580 by Resolution No.1906-06
adopted by the Council on November
13, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Mac Convenient Stores, LLC, DBA Circle K
#5580, 13951 Triskett Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent No.
54054195580, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1906-06, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 94-07.
By Council Members Kelley, Turner,
White, Reed, Johnson, Cleveland,
Britt, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Conwell,
Coats, Polensek, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Santiago, Cummins, Zone,
Westbrook, Brady, Sweeney and
Dolan.
An emergency resolution urging
the National Baseball Hall of Fame
and Museum to recognize the attendance record set at Cleveland’s
Brookside Park.

82

January 24, 2007
Whereas, Brookside Park in Cleveland’s Old Brooklyn neighborhood
played an important role in the historical development of the game of
baseball;
Whereas, Brookside Park hosted
the
largest
recorded
baseball
crowd in history on October 10,
1915; and
Whereas, on this date when the
White Autos of Cleveland played
Luxus of Omaha in the World Amateur Baseball Championship, a crowd
of 115,000 gathered along and below
the Park’s northern bluff, directly
west of today’s Fulton Road Bridge,
and cheered the home team on to
victory; and
Whereas, The National Baseball
Hall of Fame and Museum’s mission
is to foster an appreciation of the
historical development of the game
and its impact on our culture by collecting, preserving, exhibiting and
interpreting its collections for a
global audience.
Whereas, the National Baseball
Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York is missing this
important contribution to baseball
history in its exhibits; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the National Baseball Hall
of Fame and Museum to recognize
the attendance record set at Cleveland’s Brookside Park.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 95-07.
By Council Members Santiago,
Sweeney, Conwell, Britt, Zone, Cimperman, Pierce Scott, Westbrook,
Cummins and Reed.
An emergency resolution supporting health care for all children and
encouraging the federal government
to reauthorize the successful State
Children’s Health Insurance Program.
Whereas,
the
State
Children’s
Health Insurance Program (SCHIP),
enacted in 1997, is a critical source
of health insurance coverage for
over 6 million children; and
Whereas, SCHIP expanded healthcare coverage to fill the void for
millions of children under age 19
whose family income levels are too
high to qualify for Medicaid or too
low to afford private healthcare coverage; and

January 24, 2007
Whereas, SCHIP is a block grant
program, jointly funded with federal and state dollars, however, states
receive enhanced matching funds
for SCHIP enrollees; and
Whereas, unlike Medicaid, SCHIP
funding is capped, not open ended,
and allocated to states based on a
distribution formula; although states
may carry over unspent funds for
up to three years before redistribution to other states, Ohio has
never returned any unspent SCHIP
dollars to the federal government;
and
Whereas, Congress will consider
SCHIP reauthorization this year,
which could result in opportunities
to make positive changes for children and children’s hospitals; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
the federal government to seek
increased funding of SCHIP so that
more eligible children may enroll
and so that the program may be
expanded to additional populations
in need of healthcare; and
Whereas, it is clear that SCHIP
must be supported and funded as a
separate insurance for children, in
order to fill the gap for children
who are not eligible for Medicaid
and whose families cannot afford
private coverage; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
the federal government to debate
and determine how to make Medicaid and SCHIP work together to be
stronger programs; and
Whereas, SCHIP must be funded,
but not as a result of cuts to the
Medicaid program; and
Whereas, this resolution is a follow-up to the National Town Hall
Meeting held at Rainbow Babies
and Children’s Hospital on January
11, 2007; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports health care for all children
and encourages the federal government to reauthorize the successful
State Children’s Health Insurance
Program.
Section 2. That the Clerk of
Council is directed to forward a
copy of this resolution to Senators
Sherrod Brown and George Voinovich, the members of the House of
Representatives representing Northeast Ohio, and U.S. Secretary of
Health & Human Services Michael
Leavitt.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1956-06
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
automotive and truck parts and services, including installation if necessary, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1957-06
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain T.V. inspection trucks, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2079-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of computer
network equipment necessary to
replace existing equipment, including labor and materials for installation, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2080-06.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of promotional materials, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 2161-05,
passed November 21, 2005, relating

83

31
to the fund number designated to
deposit monies, under the franchise
agreement, collected for educational
and government access and other
public telecommunications and cable
services under the cable television
franchise assigned from Adelphia
Cleveland, LLC to Time Warner NY
Cable LLC.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay
as Moral Claims the sums opposite
the names of the claimants.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 8-07.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to make alterations and
modifications in Contract No. 65740,
for the Trinity Building land bank
project, with OBO Demolition and
Construction, Inc., for the Department of Economic Development.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1974-06
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of property bounded by East 105th Street,
East Boulevard, and Wade Park to
a General Retail Business Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’
Height District (Map Change No.
2203, Page 8).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1894-06.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution supporting 3M Realty, LLC/3M Development, LLC/ First Midwest Properties, LLC or its development affili-

The City Record

32
ate’s
Brownfield
Redevelopment
Fund grant application to the County of Cuyahoga.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on City Planning;
Adoption recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Zone, seconded by Council Member Brady,
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Michael
A. Dolan, be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:52 p.m. to meet Monday, January
29, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 17, 2007
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 17,
2007, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Jackson presiding.
Present: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: Director Flask.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 21-07.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1681-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
September 22, 2003, and Board of
Control Resolution No. 600-04, adopted on October 27, 2004, the City of
Cleveland entered into City Contract
No. 64773 with SBC Global Services,
Inc. to provide to the City long dis-

tance telephone services for two
years; and
Whereas, by its October 12, 2006
letter, AT&T Services, Inc. notified
the City of its merger with SBC and
effective assignment of the SBC
Global Services Inc. Agreement, City
Contract No. 64773, to and assumption by AT&T Services, Inc, effective November 18, 2005; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board authorizes the Director of Finance to consent to the
merger of SBC Global Services, Inc.
with AT&T Services, Inc. and to the
assignment of City Contract No.
64773 from SBC Global Services, Inc.
to AT&T Services, Inc., effective
November 18, 2005.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
execute all documents and do all
things necessary to implement the
consent to the assignment of City
Contract No. 64773 authorized above.
A copy of the consent to assignment
and the assignment of Contract No.
64773 shall be filed with the original of the contract in the custody of
the Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 22-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of EnviroCom Construction,
Inc., base bid and Alternate No. 4,
for the public improvement of Cleveland City Hall First Floor Ceiling
Repair Project, for the Department
of
Public
Service,
received
on
August 24, 2006, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 2143-03, passed February 9, 2004, for a gross price for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $62,300.00, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into contract for the improvement with the
bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by EnviroCom Construction, Inc. is approved:
LDH Painting Ltd.
MBE — 15.25% — $9,500
Work Best Electric Inc.
FBE — 9.95% — $6,200
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 23-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Carnegie Body Co.
LTD for an estimated quantity of
accessories
and
equipment
for

84

January 24, 2007
upfitting vehicles (all items), for
the various divisions of City Government, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
December 1, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 887-06, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 9, 2006, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $113,496.00 (Net30), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 161859
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $113,496.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 24-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on December
1, 2006, for an estimated quantity of
pole dinkeys (all items), for the various divisions of City government,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
887-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 9, 2006,
are rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 25-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Universal Oil, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of lubricants
parts A, C and D, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on December 7, 2006,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
501-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 1, 2006,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $346,445.90
(Net 30), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:

January 24, 2007
Requisition No. 161852
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $20,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 26-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Frank Blackmon for an
estimated quantity of lubricants
part B, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
December 7, 2006, under the authority of Ordinance No. 501-06, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on May 1, 2006, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $70,109.40 (2% 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 161853
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $5,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 27-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Universal Oil, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of diesel
fuel, item 2 (a, b, c), 3, 4, 6 (a), 9
(a, b), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, for the period of
two years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received
on November 22, 2006, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 879-06,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on June 12, 2006,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$2,252,864.20 (Net 30), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and

The City Record
best bid, and the Director of Public
Service is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
amount of such contract of and/or
services, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial the following:
Requisition No. 161851
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $250,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 28-07.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Petroleum Traders Corporation for an estimated quantity
of diesel fuel, item 1 (a, b), 5 (a, b,
c), 8 (a, b), 10 (a, b), for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of two years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on November 22, 2006,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
879-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 12, 2006,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $953,765.10
(0%
Net
30),
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 161850
which shall be certified, against the
contract in the sum of $400,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 29-07.
By Director Wasik.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all bid
received on November 22, 2006 for
Diesel Fuel, item 7, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 87906, passed by the Council of the City

85

33
of Cleveland on June 12, 2006, are
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 30-07.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of York Building Maintenance,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
labor and materials necessary to
clean the West Side Market (all
items), for the Division of Convention Center & Stadium, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for a period of three (3) years
beginning with the date of execution of contract, received on the 7th
day of December, 2006, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 37006, passed March 20, 2006, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Five Hundred
Forty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($540,000.00), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and
best bid, and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 151111
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred
Eighty
Thousand
and
00/100 Dollars ($180,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractor by York Building Maintenance, Inc. for the above mentioned requirement contract hereby
is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

PERCENTAGE
AMOUNT

Janitorial Services (MBE)
13.15%
$71,000.00
Artisan Cleaning (FBE)

5%
$27,000.00

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
Resolution No. 31-07.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Precision Engineer-

The City Record

34
ing and Contracting, Inc. (MBE) for
the public improvement of Kerruish
Park Aquatic Sprayground Improvements, for Base Bid Items 1 - 51
including the 5% contingency for
the Division of Research, Planning
&
Development,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation & Properties, received on November 22, 2006, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 151305, passed on October 17, 2005, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $439,574.01,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Department of Parks, Recreation
& Properties is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following
subcontractors
by
Precision
Engineering and Contracting, Inc.
(MBE) for the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Designor Polls Ltd.
$87,000.00
19.79%
White Water Industries
$83,515.00
19.00%
Erie Pointe Construction
$34,107.00
7.76%
Down to Earth Landscaping
(FBE)
$20,325.00
4.62%
Modern Surface Solutions
$16,250.00
3.70%
Ballast Fence (FBE)
$ 9,530.00
2.17%
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
O’Malley, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur, Directors Hutchinson, Reilly,
Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Flask.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2007
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 07-5: 1600 Buhrer Avenue (Ward 14)
The Cleveland Municipal School
District, owner, and Gary Goss,
agent, appeal to construct a twostory, Kindergarten through Eighth
Grade public school building, proposed to be situated on an acreage
parcel in a Two-Family District on
the north side of Buhrer Avenue
between Buhrer and Rowley Avenues at 1600 Buhrer Avenue; the proposed public school in a Residence
District being regulated according
to Sections 337.02(f)(3)(A), that require the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval after public notice and
hearing to determine if there are
adequate yard spaces and other
safeguards to preserve the character
of the neighborhood and whether
such buildings and uses are appropriately located and designed to
meet a community need without
adversely affecting the neighborhood;
and
contrary
to
Sections
349.04(c)(e) there is a parking deficiency of 21 spaces, where the one
space required for each staff person
equals 33 spaces, and one space per
six seats for the gymnasium bleachers equals 36 spaces, or a total of 69
spaces where 48 are provided; and
parking is not a permitted encroachment in the front yard area of
Buhrer Avenue according to Section
357.13 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 07-6: 7201 Wade Park
Avenue (Ward 7)
Eliza Bryant, owner, and Sandra
Madison, agent, appeal to construct
a three-story wood frame building
with 45 suites, proposed to be situated on an acreage parcel located
in split zoning between a TwoFamily District and a Shopping
Center District on the northeast
corner of Wade Park Avenue and
Addison Road at 7201 Wade Park
Avenue; where a nursing home
facility in a Residence District requires the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval as regulated in Sections
337.02(f)(3)(A), to determine, after
public notice and hearing, if there
are adequate yard spaces and other
safeguards to preserve the character
of the neighborhood and whether

86

January 24, 2007
such buildings are appropriately
located and designed to meet a community need without adversely affecting the neighborhood; and in a
“B” Area District, the maximum
gross floor area shall not exceed
one-half of the lot area and 41,926
square feet is proposed, where the
maximum gross floor area may not
exceed 31,533 square feet, according
to the provisions of Section 355.04(b)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 07-7: Appeal of Flats
Waterfront
Associates,
et
al
(Ward 13)
Flats Waterfront Associates, East
Riverfront Properties Limited Partnership, Prime Properties Limited
Partnership, 1124 Old River Road
Limited
Partnership,
Cuyahoga
Lakefront LLC, K&S Parking Co.,
Inc., George-Khouri Family Limited
Partnership, #1 Media, Old River
Road Cleveland LLC, HDV-Cleveland LLC, MSGG-Cleveland LLC,
Droe Express System, Inc. and 1146
Old
River
Road,
Inc.,
by
and
through their respective counsel,
appeal under the authority of Section 76-6(b) of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from the decision of the
City of Cleveland Planning Commission to approve the Flats East
Bank Redevelopment Demolition Request rendered on December 15,
2006.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2007
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
22, 2007, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 06-258: 12307 Larchmere
Boulevard
John Negus appealed to establish
use as auto sales and repair on a
consolidated parcel in a Local Retail
business District.
Calendar No. 06-259: 4423 Fenwick
Avenue
Rysar Properties appealed to erect
a 24' x 34' single family dwelling
in a B1 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-260: 4421 Fenwick
Avenue
Rysar Properties appealed to erect
a 24' x 34' single family dwelling
in a B1 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-261: 4415 Fenwick
Avenue
Rysar Properties appealed to erect
a 24' x 34' single family dwelling
in a B1 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 06-262: 4413 Fenwick
Avenue
Rysar Properties appealed to erect
a 24' x 34' single family dwelling
in a B1 Semi-Industry District.

The City Record

January 24, 2007
Calendar No. 07-1: 2042-44 East 4th
Street
Krause Project Partners, LLC appealed to change use from a jewelry store to a restaurant/night club
on the first floor and part of the
basement level of a six-story building in a General Retail business
District.
Calendar No. 06-224: 4421 State Road
Bryce D. Robertson appealed to
erect a 1,500 square foot storage
building at the rear of an auto
repair business in a Local Retail
Business District; subject to conditions for landscape installation.

35

In Executive Session on January
22, 2007, the following appeal heard
by the Board on November 13, 2006
was ratified by the Board:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 06-221: 4462 Denison
Avenue
Brenda Lovell Wakut appealed to
change the use from five dwelling
units and a store to four dwelling
units and a restaurant in a General
Retail Business District; subject to
modified plan.
Secretary

The
nied:

following

appeal

was

De-

REPORT OF THE BOARD
Calendar No. 06-242: 17149 St. Clair
Avenue – License Application
Brian Kuhar, d.b.a. All City Recycling, Inc. appealed from being
denied a Junk Dealer or Scrap Metal
Processor license.

OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING
The following appeal was Withdrawn:

PUBLIC NOTICE

None.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 06-241: 3018 East 55th
Street – License Application postponed to March 12, 2007.
In Executive Session on January
22, 2007, the following appeals heard
by the Board on January 16, 2007
were ratified by the Board.

Calendar No. 06-251: 2161 Murray
Hill Road
Diana and Leo Lenzo appealed to
change to a restaurant/tavern the
use of an existing stores building in
a Multi-Family District; subject to
conditions.
Calendar No. 06-257: 6020 Wakefield
Avenue
Luis Martnez and Leonel Pena
appealed to erect a frame carport on
the northeast side of a one family
dwelling in a Two-Family District;
subject to revised for a covered
patio.
Calendar No. 06-263: 1325 Mayview
Avenue
John Cruz appealed to erect a 36'
x 24' one-story reverse gable garage
in an One-Family District; subject to
revised plan for a 32' x 24' garage.
Calendar No. 06-204: 944 East 152nd
Street
Rajamikant Patel appealed to construct three one-story retail buildings on a through
parcel in split
zoning between Local Retail and
Multi-Family (formerly Two-Family) Districts; pursuant to changed
residential zoning effective January
20, 2007.

Two (2) Cab/Chassis with Front
Load Packer Body, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 887-06, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, August
9, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
JANUARY 25, 2007 AT 10:30 A.M.,
DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, BUILDING #1,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
January 17, 2007 and January 24, 2007

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
The following appeals were Approved:

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2007

NONE

None.
The following appeal was Postponed:

employment and, if applicable, joint
venture status, are submitted to
the Office of Equal Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director.
Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract or other civil or criminal
penalties.”

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority business enterprise (“MBE”)
and each female business enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified
before doing business with the City.
Therefore, any prime contractor
wishing to receive credit for using
an MBE or FBE should ensure that
applications for certification as to
MBE or FBE status compliance
with the Code, affirmative action in

87

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2007
Dry Cell Batteries, for the Various
Divisions of Finance, Department
of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance Pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2007 AT 10:30
A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES & SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 17, 2007 and January 24, 2007
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2007
Exterminating Services, for the Various Divisions of Finance, Department of Finance, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2047-06, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, January 10, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2007 AT 10:30
A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES & SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Building Materials and Used Paving Bricks (Re-Bid), for the Various Divisions, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 601-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 10, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2007 AT 11:30
A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES & SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 17, 2007 and January 24, 2007

The City Record

36
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2007

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2007

Disposal of Debris at Landfills, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 1508-06, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland, October 30, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
JANUARY 26, 2007 AT 10:30 A.M.,
DIVISION OF WATER DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE, PIPE
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM,
4600 HARVARD AVENUE, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.

Snow Removal, for the Division of
Health Centers, Department of
Public Health, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2012-06, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 11, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2007 AT 10:00
A.M.,
McCAFFERTY
HEALTH
CENTER, 4242 LORAIN AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.

January 17, 2007 and January 24, 2007
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2007
Sodium Hypochlorite Solution, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY 9, 2007 AT 2:30 P.M.,
CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
January 17, 2007 and January 24, 2007

Ford Truck Parts and Labor, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 501-06, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 1,
2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2007 AT
11:30 A.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING
#1,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44105.
January 24, 2007 and January 31, 2007
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2006
Rental of Golf Carts at Seneca and
Highland Park Golf Courses, for
the Division of Parks Maintenance and Properties, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1756-06, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December 11, 2006.

January 24, 2007
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2007
AT
9:30
A.M.,
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION,
ROOM
#8,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 24, 2007 and January 31, 2007

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, January 22, 2007
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present:
ney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Brady, Conwell, Britt, Pierce
Zone, Westbrook, Brancatelli,
White.

SweeChair;
Scott,
Coats,

Tuesday, January 23, 2007
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Cummins, Westbrook,
Zone, Lewis. Authorized Absence:
Brady, Coats.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Adelphia (Cable Television)
Time Warner NY Cable LLC — assignment of the cable television franchise —
amend Ord. 2161-05 (O 1-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Agreements
4th of July Fireworks — #1 Media — 2007-2010 (O 65-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — Community Gun Buy Back Program —
Ward 3 NEF (O 93-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Appreciation
Lynnhaven Development Group (R 117-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Appropriations
E. 105th St., 1570 — blighted premises — appropriate property — redevelopment
(R 61-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

Banners
Unity Baptist Church — church’s 89th anniversary (O 75-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

88

January 24, 2007

The City Record

37

Blight
E. 105th St., 1570 — blighted premises — appropriate property — redevelopment
(R 61-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
E. 120th St., 3509 — appropriate property — redevelopment (R 62-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

Board of Control — City Hall
Ceiling repair project, first floor — contract per Ord. 2143-03 to
EnviroCom Construction, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 22-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Board of Control — Convention Center and Stadium Division
West Side Market cleaning — contract per Ord. 370-06 to York Building
Maintenance, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 30-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Board of Control — Finance Department
Long distance telephone services — assign Contract #64733 per BOC Res. 600-04
to AT&T Services, Inc. — Division of Information Technology and Services
(BOC Res. 21-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Board of Control — Information Technology and Services Division
Long distance telephone services — assign Contract #64733 per BOC Res. 600-04
to AT&T Services, Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 21-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Board of Control — Kerruish Park
Aquatic Sprayground Improvements — contract per Ord. 1513-05 to Precision Engineering and
Contracting, Inc. — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 31-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 879-06 to Petroleum Traders Corporation —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 28-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 879-06 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 27-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Diesel fuel — per Ord. 879-06 — bids rejected — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 29-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 501-06 to Frank Blackmon — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 26-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 501-06 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 25-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Kerruish Park Aquatic Sprayground Improvements — contract per Ord. 1513-05 to Precision
Engineering and Contracting, Inc. — Division of Research, Planning and Development
(BOC Res. 31-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
West Side Market cleaning — contract per Ord. 370-06 to York Building
Maintenance, Inc. — Division of Convention Center and Stadium
(BOC Res. 30-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Ceiling repair project, first floor at City Hall — contract per Ord. 2143-03
to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 22-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Kerruish Park Aquatic Sprayground Improvements — contract per Ord. 1513-05
to Precision Engineering and Contracting, Inc. — Division of Research,
Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 31-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

89

The City Record

38

January 24, 2007

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Ceiling repair project, first floor at City Hall — contract per Ord. 2143-03 to
EnviroCom Construction, Inc. (BOC Res. 22-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 879-06 to Petroleum Traders Corporation —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 28-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 879-06 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 27-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Diesel fuel — per Ord. 879-06 — bids rejected — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (BOC Res. 29-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Equipment and accessories for upfitting vehicles — contract per Ord. 887-06 to
Carnegie Body Co., Ltd. (BOC Res. 23-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 501-06 to Frank Blackmon — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 26-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 501-06 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 25-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Pole trailers (dinkeys) — per Ord. 887-06 — all bids rejected
(BOC Res. 24-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 879-06 to Petroleum Traders Corporation —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 28-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 879-06 to Universal Oil, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 27-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Equipment and accessories for upfitting vehicles — contract per Ord. 887-06
to Carnegie Body Co., Ltd. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 23-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Long distance telephone services — assign Contract #64733 per BOC Res. 600-04
to AT&T Services, Inc. — Division of Information Technology and Services,
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 21-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 501-06 to Frank Blackmon — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 26-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 501-06 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 25-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
West Side Market cleaning — contract per Ord. 370-06 to York Building Maintenance, Inc. —
Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 30-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Kerruish Park Aquatic Sprayground Improvements — contract per Ord. 1513-05 to Precision
Engineering and Contracting, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 31-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Board of Control — West Side Market
Cleaning — contract per Ord. 370-06 to York Building Maintenance, Inc. — Division
of Convention Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 30-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Denison Avenue, 4462, (Ward 15) — Brenda Lovell Wakut, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-221) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
East 152nd Street, 944, (Ward 10) — Rajamikant Patel, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
East 55th Street, 3018, (Ward 5) — Ian Abrams, d.b.a. The Scrap Yard LLC — appeal
postponed to 3/12/07 on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-241) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
East Street, 2042, (Ward 13) — Krause Project Partners, LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 1/22/07 (Cal. 07-1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Fenwick Avenue, 4413, (Ward 17) — Rysar Properties, owner and John Oswick, agent —
appeal heard on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-262) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Fenwick Avenue, 4415, (Ward 17) — Rysar Properties, owner and John Oswick, agent —
appeal heard on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

90

January 24, 2007

The City Record

39

Fenwick Avenue, 4421, (Ward 17) — Rysar Properties, owner and John Oswick, agent —
appeal heard on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-260) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Fenwick Avenue, 4423, (Ward 17) — Rysar Properties, owner and John Oswick, agent —
appeal heard on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Larchmere Boulevard, 12307, (Ward 6) — John Negus, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/07
(Cal. 06-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Mayview Avenue, 1325, (Ward 15) — John Cruz, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/22/07 (Cal. 06-263). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Murray Hill Road, 2161, (Ward 6) — Diana and Leo Lenzo, owners — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-251) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
St. Clair Avenue, 17149, (Ward 11) — Brian Kuhar, d.b.a. All City Recycling, Inc. —
appeal heard on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
State Road, 4421, (Ward 16) — Bryce D. Robertson, owner — appeal heard on 1/22/07
(Cal. 06-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Wakefield Avenue, 6020, (Ward 17) — Luis Martinez and Leonel Pena, owners —
appeal granted and adopted on 1/22/07 (Cal. 06-257) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Buhrer Avenue, 1600, (Ward 14) — The Cleveland Municipal School District, owner and Gary
Goss, agent — appeal to be heard on 2/5/07 (Cal. 07-5). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Old River Road, 1124, appeal of Flats Waterfront Associates, et al., (Ward 13) —
appeal to be heard on 2/5/07 (Cal. 07-7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Wade Park Avenue, 7201, (Ward 7) — Eliza Bryant, owner and Sandra Madison, agent —
appeal to be heard on 2/5/07 (Cal. 07-6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Bridges
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replacement of the wearing surface — consent —
State of Ohio (O 56-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Burke Lakefront Airport
T & G Flying Club, Inc. — Lease Agreement — office space — flight training
(O 54-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Cable Television
Adelphia Cleveland, LLC — assignment of the cable television franchise —
Time Warner NY Cable LLC — amend Ord. 2161-05 (O 1-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

City of Cleveland Bids
Batteries, dry cell — Department of Finance — per Ord. — bid due February 7, 2007
(advertised 1/17/2007 and 1/24/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Building materials and used paving bricks (Re-bid) — Department of Finance —
per Ord. 601-06 — bid due February 8, 2007 (advertised 1/17/2007 and 1/24/2007) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Cab / chassis with front load packer body — Department of Public Service — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 887-06 — bid due February 2, 2007
(advertised 1/17/2007 and 1/24/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Debris disposal at landfill — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per Ord. 601-06 — bid due February 9, 2007 (advertised 1/17/2007 and 1/24/2007) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Exterminating services — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2047-06 —
bid due February 8, 2007 (advertised 1/17/2007 and 1/24/2007) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Ford truck parts and labor — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 501-06 — bid due February 15, 2007
(advertised 1/24/2007 and 1/31/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Golf cart rental for Seneca and Highland Park golf courses — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties —
per Ord. 1756-06 — bid due February 23, 2007 (advertised 1/24/2007 and 1/31/2007) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Snow removal — Department of Public Health — per Ord. 2012-06 — bid due February 15, 2007
(advertised 1/24/2007 and 1/31/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Sodium hypochlorite solution — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 129.24 — bid due February 23, 2007 (advertised 1/17/2007 and 1/24/2007) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

91

The City Record

40

January 24, 2007

City Planning Commission
Chester Ave. north side (E. 90 St. & E. 97 St.) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business, a General Retail Business District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 69-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Detroit Ave. north side (between W. 65 St. to W. 67 St.) — change the Height District —
‘3’ Height District (O 71-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
E. 105th St., East Blvd., & Wade Park (property bounded by) — change the Use, Area and
Height Districts — General Retail Business Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and a
‘3’ Height District (O 1974-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 152nd St. east and west side (north of Kinsman Rd.) — change the Use District —
Residence Office District (O 70-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Gordon Square Historic District — establish (O 60-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Lorain Ave. ( south side between W. 160 St. & W. 162 St.) — change the Use District
(O 68-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Ohio City Historic District — establish — repealing Ord. Nos. 708-04 & 74-05
(O 59-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Cleveland Public Power
Automotive and truck parts and services — purchase (O 1956-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Computer network equipment — purchase (O 2079-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Promotional materials — purchase (O 2080-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Communications
Clear Channel Outdoor — contact information for all billboards
(F 97-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
First Interstate Properties, LTD. re: Recorded — Environmental Covenant for
NFA Letter No. 06NFA247 (F 99-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Klaiber, Jr., Robert — appointed to the Towpath Trail Tax Increment
Financing Advisory Committee — Cuyahoga County Commissioners
(F 98-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency — hearing regarding Cuyahoga County
Construction Project (F 96-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Community Development
3M Realty, LLC/ 3M Development, LLC/ First Midwest Properties, LLC —
Brownfield Redevelopment Fund grant application — Council’s support
(R 1894-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 105th St., 1570 — blighted premises — appropriate property — redevelopment
(R 61-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
E. 120th St., 3509 — appropriate property — redevelopment (R 62-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
E. 83rd St., Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Delmar Yarbrough
(O 67-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
E. 97th St. — Land Reutilization Program — The Finch Group (O 66-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68

Condolences
Baird, Donna M. (Deweth) (R 115-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Cholewa, Elizabeth (R 112-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Clayton, Gladys (R 120-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Fletcher, Anna Marie (R 119-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lee Edwards, Mary (R 114-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Miller, Jr., Wylie (R 118-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Robbins, Reid M. (R 113-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Winters, Cecil H. “Chip” (R 116-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Congratulations
Franklin Frazier, Harvey (R 123-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Meyers, Joseph (R 121-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Murphy, Elvin & Georgia (R 126-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland (R 124-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Shiloh Temple of Faith, Inc. (R 125-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Steffen, Linda (R 122-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

92

January 24, 2007

The City Record

41

Contracts
OBO Demolition and Construction, Inc. — Contract No. 65740 —
alterations and modifications — Economic Development Dept.
(O 8-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Cuyahoga County
3M Realty, LLC/ 3M Development, LLC/ First Midwest Properties, LLC —
Brownfield Redevelopment Fund grant application — Council’s support
(R 1894-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners
Bellaire Rd. — rehabilitation — consent — allocation — County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Funds (O 55-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Klaiber, Jr., Robert — appointed to the Towpath Trail Tax Increment
Financing Advisory Committee (F 98-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Economic Development Department
Cleveland Wire Cloth & Manufacturing Company, The — Enterprise Zone Agreement —
tax abatement — 3573 E. 78th St. (O 58-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
OBO Demolition and Construction, Inc. — Contract No. 65740 —
alterations and modifications (O 8-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Cleveland Wire Cloth & Manufacturing Company, The — tax abatement —
3573 E. 78th St. (O 58-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Finance Department
Adelphia Cleveland, LLC — assignment of the cable television franchise —
Time Warner NY Cable LLC — amend Ord. 2161-05 (O 1-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Moral Claim — payment (O 2-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Northeast Ohio Sourcing Office — Membership Agreement, Master Services
and Consulting Agreement, and Master Product Agreement — apply
(O 53-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Project Clean program — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. — Finance Dept. —
temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary employment agencies
(O 63-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

Grants
Invest in Children for the MomsFirst and Help Me Grow Partnership Program —
amend Ord. 2197-05 (O 57-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Health Care Coverage
State Children’s Health Insurance Program — Council’s support (R 95-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Health Department
Invest in Children for the MomsFirst and Help Me Grow Partnership Program —
grant — amend Ord. 2197-05 (O 57-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Land Reutilization Program
E. 83rd St., Cedar Ave. — Delmar Yarbrough (O 67-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
E. 97th St. — The Finch Group (O 66-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68

Lease Agreement
T & G Flying Club, Inc. — office space — flight training — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 54-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

93

The City Record

42

January 24, 2007

Liquor Permits
Anderson Rd., 9619 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 90-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection — withdraw (Ward 12) (R 78-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection — withdraw (Ward 12) (R 79-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Detroit Ave., 11609 — transfer (Ward 18) (F 108-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
E. 9th St., 2217 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 102-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Euclid Ave., 11313 — objection (Ward 9) (R 83-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Euclid Ave., 11313 — transfer (Ward 9) (F 104-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Euclid Ave., 3614 — transfer (Ward 7) (F 101-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Imperial Ave., 12210 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 88-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Kinsman Ave., 141011/2 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 87-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 13429 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 76-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 13501-05 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 110-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lorain Ave., 12702 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 111-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lorain Ave., 13999 — objection (Ward 20) (R 91-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Lorain Ave., 13999 — transfer (Ward 20) (F 106-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lorain Ave., 17400 — transfer (Ward 21) (F 105-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Luther King Dr., 3832 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 89-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Old River Rd., 1187 — objection (Ward 13) (R 80-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Puritas Ave., 15002 — new (Ward 20) (F 100-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Puritas Rd., 19609 — transfer (Ward 20) (F 107-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Saranac Rd., 15507 — objection — withdraw (Ward 11) (R 86-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Sophia Ave., 10017 — transfer (Ward 4) (F 103-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
St. Clair Ave., 7502 — objection (Ward 8) (R 85-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Triskett Rd., 13951 — objection — withdraw (Ward 20) (R 92-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
W. 25th St., 2700 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 109-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Western Ave., 11121 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 77-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Woodhill Ave., 2975 — objection (Ward 4) (R 84-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Woodland Ave., 5611 — objection — withdraw (Ward 5) (R 81-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Woodworth Ave., 14505 — objection (Ward 10) (R 82-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Mayor’s Office
Northeast Ohio Sourcing Office — Membership Agreement, Master Services
and Consulting Agreement, and Master Product Agreement — apply
(O 53-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Moral Claims
Payment (O 2-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Museums
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum — urging — Cleveland’s Brookside Park —
attendance record (R 94-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Community Gun Buy
Back Program — Ward 3 (O 93-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Cuyahoga County Construction Project — hearing (F 96-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
4th of July Fireworks — agreement — #1 Media — 2007-2010 (O 65-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Project Clean program — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. — Finance Dept. —
temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary employment agencies
(O 63-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

Peddlers
Piperis, Anna — Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit (O 72-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Sakellis, Irene — Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit (O 73-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

94

January 24, 2007

The City Record

43

Permits
Piperis, Anna — Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — peddling
(O 72-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Sakellis, Irene — Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — peddling
(O 73-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Walk for Hunger, 19th Annual — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 74-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Personnel Department
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39 —
compensation — amend Sec. 24 of Ord. 289-06 (O 64-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

Port Control Department
T & G Flying Club, Inc. — Lease Agreement — office space —
flight training — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 54-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Recognition
Cleveland Saves (R 127-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lee, Sr., Deacon Charles (R 128-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum — urging — Cleveland’s
Brookside Park — attendance record (R 94-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
State Children’s Health Insurance Program — Council’s support
(R 95-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Safety Department
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Community Gun Buy
Back Program — Ward 3 NEF (O 93-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Salaries
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39 —
compensation — amend Sec. 24 of Ord. 289-06 (O 64-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

Service Department
Bellaire Rd. — rehabilitation — consent — Board of County Commissioners —
allocation — County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 55-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replacement of the wearing surface — consent —
State of Ohio (O 56-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Unity Baptist Church — banners — church’s 89th anniversary
(O 75-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Walk for Hunger, 19th Annual — permit — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 74-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

State of Ohio
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replacement of the wearing surface — consent —
State of Ohio (O 56-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Unions
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39 —
compensation — amend Sec. 24 of Ord. 289-06
(O 64-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

95

The City Record

44

January 24, 2007

Utilities Department
Adelphia Cleveland, LLC — assignment of the cable television franchise —
Time Warner NY Cable LLC — amend Ord. 2161-05
(O 1-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Automotive and truck parts and services — purchase — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1956-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Computer network equipment — purchase — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(O 2079-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Promotional materials — purchase — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(O 2080-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
T.V. inspection trucks — repair and maintain — Division of Water Pollution Control
(O 1957-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Ward 01
Fletcher, Anna Marie — condolence (R 119-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Franklin Frazier, Harvey — congratulation (R 123-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 02
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replacement of the wearing surface — consent —
State of Ohio (O 56-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Clayton, Gladys — condolence (R 120-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 03
Anderson Rd., 9619 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 90-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Cleveland Saves — recognition (R 127-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
E. 120th St., 3509 — appropriate property — redevelopment (R 62-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
E. 152nd St. east and west side (north of Kinsman Rd.) — change the Use District —
Residence Office District (O 70-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Imperial Ave., 12210 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 88-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Kinsman Ave., 141011/2 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 7-07)
Lee, Sr., Deacon Charles — recognition (R 128-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Luther King Dr., 3832 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 89-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Community Gun Buy
Back Program — NEF (O 93-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Murphy, Elvin & Georgia — congratulation (R 126-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Unity Baptist Church — banners — church’s 89th anniversary
(O 75-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Ward 04
Robbins, Reid M. — condolence (R 113-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Sophia Ave., 10017 — transfer — liquor permit (F 103-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Woodhill Ave., 2975 — objection — liquor permit (R 84-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Ward 05
Lynnhaven Development Group — appreciation (R 117-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland — congratulation
(R 124-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Shiloh Temple of Faith, Inc. — congratulation (R 125-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Woodland Ave., 5611 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 81-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Ward 06
E. 83rd St., Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Delmar Yarbrough
(O 67-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Robbins, Reid M. — condolence (R 113-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

96

January 24, 2007

The City Record

45

Ward 07
Chester Ave. north side (E. 90 St. & E. 97 St.) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business, a General Retail Business District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 69-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
E. 97th St. — Land Reutilization Program — The Finch Group
(O 66-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Euclid Ave., 3614 — transfer — liquor permit (F 101-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Miller, Jr., Wylie — condolence (R 118-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 08
E. 105th St., 1570 — blighted premises — appropriate property — redevelopment
(R 61-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
E. 105th St., East Blvd., & Wade Park (property bounded by) — change the Use, Area and
Height Districts — General Retail Business Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and a
‘3’ Height District (O 1974-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
St. Clair Ave., 7502 — objection — liquor permit (R 85-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Ward 09
Euclid Ave., 11313 — objection — liquor permit (R 83-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Euclid Ave., 11313 — transfer — liquor permit (F 104-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 10
Lee Edwards, Mary — condolence (R 114-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Woodworth Ave., 14505 — objection — liquor permit (R 82-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Ward 11
Saranac Rd., 15507 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 86-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 78-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Broadway Ave., 6542 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 79-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Cholewa, Elizabeth — condolence (R 112-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Cleveland Wire Cloth & Manufacturing Company, The — Enterprise Zone Agreement —
tax abatement — 3573 E. 78th St. (O 58-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Neighborhood Housing Services of Greater Cleveland — congratulation
(R 124-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Robbins, Reid M. — condolence (R 113-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 13
E. 9th St., 2217 — transfer — liquor permit (F 102-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Ohio City Historic District — establish — repealing Ord. Nos. 708-04 & 74-05
(O 59-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Old River Rd., 1187 — objection — liquor permit (R 80-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Walk for Hunger, 19th Annual — permit — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 74-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Ward 14
Piperis, Anna — Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — peddling
(O 72-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Sakellis, Irene — Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit — peddling
(O 73-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
W. 25th St., 2700 — transfer — liquor permit (F 109-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 15
Baird, Donna M. (Deweth) — condolence (R 115-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Winters, Cecil H. “Chip” — condolence (R 116-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

97

The City Record

46

January 24, 2007

Ward 17
Detroit Ave. north side (between W. 65 St. to W. 67 St.) — change the Height District —
‘3’ Height District (O 71-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Gordon Square Historic District — establish (O 60-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Ohio City Historic District — establish — repealing Ord. Nos. 708-04 & 74-05
(O 59-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Ward 18
Detroit Ave., 11609 — transfer — liquor permit (F 108-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
OBO Demolition and Construction, Inc. — Contract No. 65740 —
alterations and modifications — Economic Development Dept.
(O 8-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Robbins, Reid M. — condolence (R 113-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 19
Bellaire Rd. — rehabilitation — consent — Board of County Commissioners —
allocation — County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds
(O 55-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 13429 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 76-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 13501-05 — transfer — liquor permit (F 110-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lorain Ave., 12702 — transfer — liquor permit (F 111-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Western Ave., 11121 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 77-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 20
Lorain Ave., 13999 — objection — liquor permit (R 91-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Lorain Ave., 13999 — transfer — liquor permit (F 106-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Lynnhaven Development Group — appreciation (R 117-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Meyers, Joseph — congratulation (R 121-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Puritas Ave., 15002 — new — liquor permit (F 100-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Puritas Rd., 19609 — transfer — liquor permit (F 107-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Steffen, Linda — congratulation (R 122-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Triskett Rd., 13951 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 92-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Ward 21
Lorain Ave. ( south side between W. 160 St. & W. 162 St.) — change the Use District
(O 68-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Lorain Ave., 17400 — transfer — liquor permit (F 105-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Water Pollution Control Division
T.V. inspection trucks — repair and maintain (O 1957-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Zoning
Chester Ave. north side (E. 90 St. & E. 97 St.) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business, a General Retail Business District and a ‘3’ Height District
(O 69-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Detroit Ave. north side (between W. 65 St. to W. 67 St.) — change the Height District —
‘3’ Height District (O 71-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
E. 105th St., East Blvd., & Wade Park (property bounded by) — change the Use, Area and
Height Districts — General Retail Business Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and a
‘3’ Height District (O 1974-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
E. 152nd St. east and west side (north of Kinsman Rd.) — change the Use District —
Residence Office District (O 70-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Lorain Ave. ( south side between W. 160 St. & W. 162 St.) — change the Use District
(O 68-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71

98

